to the ocean research and was an experimental satellite, which demonstrated the retrieval of wind to an accuracy of 2 m/s, from wide swath scatterometer. ERS-1 & 2 satellites were launched with C-band microwave scatterometers. Japanese satellite ADEOS-1 carried a Ku-band scatterometer. Pencil-beam scatterometers operating at Ku-band were launched onboard ADEOS-2 and Quikscat satellites. Quikscat scatterometer is currently in orbit. A similar pencil-beam scatterometer operating at Ku band is due for launch onboard Indian satellite Oceansat-2 satellite. 2 Scatterometer is an active microwave instrument (radar), which measures the microwave energy backscattered from an area over the earth’s surface illuminated by it. From the known transmitted and backscattered energy along with measurement geometry and other sensor related parameters, the radar backscatter coefficient or the normalized radar cross section (NRCS) symbolized as σ0 (sigma naught) is derived. The σ0 measurements over the ocean are used for wind vector determination. The philosophy of wind retrieval is discussed later, however, multiple measurements of backscatter are required for this purpose and scatterometers are designed to realize the same with multiple beams (antennae) in configurations like fan-beam or pencil-beam. The fan-beam type employs two or more single or dual polarization antennae and has maximum azimuth separation of 90 degrees like those launched onboard Seasat, ERS- 1/2 and ADEOS-1 satellites. The pencil beam type scatterometers observe radar backscatter at different azimuth separation angles like those launched onboard ADEOS-2 and Quikscat satellites. Retrieval of the surface wind vector in terms of speed and direction takes place using these so called 'triplets', 'quadruplets' or multiple of radar backscatter through a model known as Geophysical Model Function (GMF) which relates polarized backscatter with wind speed, wind direction and observational geometry. 3.0 Oceansat-2 scatterometer system: Oceansat-2 satellite in sun-synchronous orbit at 720 km altitude will carry a Ku- band microwave scatterometer