(MMDRPS), November 2018 101 have to correctly simulate these clouds to have the proper radiative terms for the Earth's heat budget. Past estimates of the variation of cloud cover and the Earth's outgoing longwave radiation have been derived primarily from the longwave infrared window (10-12 µm) radiances observed from polar orbiting and geostationary satellites (Rossow and Lacis, 1990; Gruber and Chen, 1988). The occurrence of semi-transparent clouds is often underestimated in these single channel approaches. Recently, multispectral techniques have been used to better detect cirrus in global (Wylie et al., 2005; Wu and Susskind, 1990) and North American (Wylie and Menzel, 1989) cloud studies. Additionally, clouds are very important to study weather phenomena at various spatial and temporal scales including its diurnal cycle. Diurnal cycle of various physical processes such as radiative exchange, precipitation, small and large-scale dynamics are of great importance and are greatly linked with clouds, therefore, underlines the study of diurnal cycles of clouds too. Ackerman and Cox (1981) had reported the diurnal oscillation of cloudiness in some tropical areas. These diurnal oscillations are part of dynamic-radiative feedback mechanism that operates on various spatial scales. (Foltz and Gray, 1979) 9.3. Objective The main objective of this document is to provide the theoretical basis for deriving cloud top pressure/ cloud top temperature and effective cloud amount from INSAT-3D/3DR imager channels. The proposed algorithm will be applied to retrieve cloud properties from imager channels over each pixel defined as confidently cloudy from CMK product. The algorithm has no limitation based on geographical location, therefore, can be applied to generate products over full disk or sector products. 9.4. Inputs 9.4.1. Static Data Parameter Resolution Accuracy Source Land/sea flag ~2 km x 2 km -- Global topographic datasets (Available) Surface Elevation Each Pixel 10 km x 10 km -- Global topographic