non-linearity in the sounder observations. Separate regression coefficients are generated for land and Temperature, Moisture Profile and Total Ozone from Sounder INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 258 sea for day and night conditions. Regression coefficients are generated for different local zenith angles from nadir to 62.5. If any one or more channels in sounder become unusable, then regression coefficients will be recomputed from remaining well-behaved channels and suitable modification will be done in regression retrieval routine. In absence of regression retrieval the first guess will be taken from the model forecast. Another way to generate profile vectors through regression is by using the matchup file that contains the time and space collocated satellite radiance measurements and radiosonde profiles used for generation of the regression coefficients. This may be attempted after the launch of satellite and when enough collocated data points have been generated to represent the profiles variability. The advantage of the regression retrieval using the theoretically computed regression coefficients over real observations is that it avoids errors due to space and time differences between satellite observation and radiosonde profile observation. Observed matchup data would be very useful for removing the bias error caused by the forward model calculations. 16.4.2.4 Non-Linear Physical Retrieval Though statistical regression algorithm has the advantage of being computationally efficient, numerically stable, and simple, it does not account for the physical properties of the radiative transfer equation (RTE). Therefore, after computing atmospheric profiles from the regression technique and creating a hybrid first-guess combining with model forecast, a non-linear iterative physical algorithm (Li et al., 2000, Ma et at. 1999, Seeman at al. 2003) is applied to the RTE to improve the solution. For non-scattering atmosphere in local thermodynamic equilibrium, the radiative transfer equation may be written as: Following derivation by Li et al (1994) the RTE