Min Max Accuracy Resolution Aerosol optical depth at 650 nm Dimensionless 0 2 15-20% 4 Km 10.5.1 format of the output and the domain Lat , Lon, AOD , Domain : 40 to 40 N, 30 E to 120 E 10.6 Validation 10.6.1 Data required Parameter Resolution Quantization Accuracy Source AERONET spectral AOD data In-situ point observation -- -- AERONET sites in India Kanpur, Goa and Dharwar Spectral AOD using handheld sunphotometer In-situ point observation -- -- Data collection campaigns will be organized MODIS AOD products 1 degree X 1 degree Data available through internet 10.6.2 Methods of validation AERONET data for Validation Post-launch routine ground-based observations can be made using AERONET, and any of the several miscellaneous techniques, including the diffuse/direct method, aureole meters, and polarization measurements. AeRoNet (Aerosol Robotic Network) is a network of ground-based sun-photometers established and maintained by Brent Holben of Code 923 of the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center and Tom Eck of Raytheon ITSS. The sun-photometers measure the spectral aerosol optical thickness and sky radiance. In India 3 Aeronet sites namely Kanpur, Goa and Dharwar are providing systematic in-situ AOD measurements. Data from these sites will be used for validation of INSAT-3D derived AODs. Post-Launch Special Field Experiments Many of the present satellite observations are augmented by special field campaigns to provide ground-truth data for the satellite-derived measurements. The INSAT-3D Imager derived aerosol optical thickness measurements will be validated using hand-held sun- Aerosols INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 161 photometer. The details of these campaigns (timing, location, instrumentation, etc.) will be decided later on. Post-Launch Satellite-Based Inter-comparisons INSAT-3D Imager derived aerosol optical depths may be validated by comparing them with aerosol optical depths derived by other satellite sensors, such as MODIS. The basic inter-comparison technique involves three steps: 1) identification of locations where both