scale effects, such as their impact on climate by redistributing solar radiation (Herman and Browning 1975; Charlson et al. 1991; Haywood et al. 1999) and interacting with clouds (Platnick and Twomey 1994; Kaufman et al. 2002). Aerosol information is also critical for atmospheric correction algorithms for multi-spectral satellite sensors and military operations. The climate effects of atmospheric aerosols may be comparable to CO2 greenhouse effects, but with opposite sign and larger uncertainty (Hansen and Lacis, 1990). Aerosols have a significant impact on human life beyond the climate element. When in the lower troposphere, aerosols cause poor air quality, reduction of visibility, and public health hazards. Satellite remote sensing provides a means to derive aerosol distribution at global and regional scales. This Algorithm Theoretical Basis Document (ATBD) describes the algorithm used to retrieve the Aerosol Optical Thickness (AOT) for the INSAT-3D Imager instrument operating from a geostationary platform. The output product description is summarized in Table 1. Specifically, this document identifies the sources of input data, both INSAT-3D imager and non- INSAT-3D imager data, required for retrieval; provides the physical theory and mathematical background underlying the use of this information in the retrievals; includes implementation details; and describes assumptions and limitations of the proposed approach. Table 1: Summary of Aerosol optical Depth (AOD) product Parameter Name Units Horizontal Cell Size Comments Aerosol Optical depth at 650 nm Dimensionless 4.0 Km for both Land and oceans Retrieved for all the pixels except areas of clouds Aerosols INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 154 10.2.2 Objective The objective of this algorithm is to calculate the aerosol optical thickness, proportional to the total aerosol loading of the ambient aerosol, over both land and ocean for Indian region on twice daily basis. As clouds block the surface reflectance, the aerosol optical thickness cannot be found for