The analysed chlorophyll fields displayed in the Gallery section in the MOSDAC is shown in Figure 6 for the day 25 January 2024. Figure 6. A typical standard output available in MOSDAC Gallery section 3.7 Initial Validation For inter-comparison and validation, independent observations of satellite and Bio- Argo buoys are used for the period September 2023 to November 2023. 3.7.1 Analysis with Multi-Satellite Chlorophyll data For validating the analysed products, results are compared with available satellite observations. For the purpose, we have used chlorophyll data from sensors other than OCM-3 such as MODIS, VIIRS, etc. This validation can be considered as an independent validation as these satellite information is not incorporated while generating the analysed chlorophyll product. A merged product of chlorophyll from these satellites are downloaded from https://marine.copernicus.eu. To generate analysed chlorophyll fields, OCM-3 derived chlorophyll is assimilated to the coupled model simulated chlorophyll to improve the model simulations of surface chlorophyll. Therefore, validation is carried to check the improvement brought to the model simulations through the incorporation of OCM-3 data. Figure 7 shows the weekly average of chlorophyll (15 Oct 2023 to 22 Oct 2023) from various sources; 1) Coupled model chlorophyll, 2) Analysed Chlorophyll, 3) Chlorophyll from OCM-3, and 4) Merged Chlorophyll data from multi-satellites. It is clear from Figure 7 that analysed chlorophyll fields capture the chlorophyll features in the ocean as observed in the multi satellite data. However, a slight overestimation is observed in the analysed products towards polar region beyond 60o latitude in both the hemispheres and is partially attributed to the sparse observations of OCM-3 in those regions and the bootstrapping sampling used in the study. While sampling, all the model points are altered adding random biases to the background filed. These particles are then compared with OCM-3 chlorophyll data to select strong