cloud bands, anvils etc. seen in hourly/half hourly images. Many of these schemes are interactive in nature. Over the Indian region, monthly average rainfll information in the form of quantitative precipitation estimate (QPEs) maps with spatial resolution of 2.50x2.50 are produced on a regular basis since 1986 using INSAT-VHRR IR images collected eight times daily (Arkin et al. 1989). These maps are produced following the Arkin and Miesner (1987) tecnique. Currently rainfall estimation from IR and Water Vapour channels of KALPANA and INSAT-3A are being utilized for the development of advanced algorithms for rainfall estimation over land and oceanic regions at 2.50x2.50 and sub-grid scale (0.250x0.250) by Gairola et al. (2007) by both GPI and INSAT Multi Spectral Rainfall Algorithm (IMSRA) (Gairola et al. 2007). Microwave Measurements of Rain: Satellite microwave radiometers have been successfully used to monitor the temporal and spatial variations of sea surface and atmospheric properties on global scale since the launch of the Soviet Cosmos-243 instrument in 1969. The process of using satellite data for such applications is complex. Grody (1993) provided a complete review of past, present and planned future satellite microwave instruments, including their operational characteristics and applications. Among all the geophysical parameters, rainfall is the most difficult parameter to be retrieved from satellite remote sensing due to the intermittent nature of the processes of rain occurrence and its highly complex emission/absorption and scattering properties. Microwave, due to their long wavelengths achieve better penetration and interact strongly with the raindrops present in the cloud. These measurements provide a direct physical basis for rain estimation. Also microwaves are largely intensive to the presence of ice in thin cirrus clouds but only suffers its poor resolution capability. The precipitation monitoring capability of SSM/I has been demonstrated by many investigators. Wilheit et al. (1991) used multichannel microwave