of Rainfall from MADRAS 2.1 Algorithm configuration information 2.1.1 Algorithm name: Rainfall Retrieval (RAINRET) 2.1.2 Algorithm Identifier: ISRO_MT_RAINRET_A001 2.1.3 Algorithm Specification Version Prepared by Description 2.0 R.M. Gairola and A.K. Varma ATBD for Rainfall Retrieval from MADRAS 2.2 Introduction Rainfall is a highly discontinuous process both in space and time. Accurate and reliable measurements of rainfall over extensive areas of oceans present a formidable challenge to meteorologists. In addition to large uncertainties in the derived estimates, there are problems related to nonuniformities of coverage, quality and logistics of operations etc. The global observations and monitoring of clouds from space using remote sensing techniques, has the potential of providing global rainfall information on desired time and space scales (Kummerow et al. 1995, Adler et al. 1994). Precipitation is associated with various atmospheric phenomena both in small and large scale. Assessment of precipitation contributes to improve weather forecasting, in small and large spatial scales, and a study of global rainfall leads to better understanding of global climate variability. In addition, one of the strongest links between ocean, land and atmosphere is the fresh water fluxes due to evaporation and precipitation process. Evaporation ("E") controls the loss of fresh water and precipitation ("P") governs most of the gain of fresh water. Inputs from rivers and melting ice can also contribute to fresh water gains. Evaporation minus precipitation is usually referred to as the net flux of fresh water or the total fresh water in or out of the oceans and can be determined from satellite remotes sensing methods (Gairola et al. 2007). E-P determines surface salinity of the ocean, which helps determine the stability of the water column. Salinity and temperature determine the density of ocean water, and density influences the circulation. Precipitation also affects the height of the ocean surface indirectly via