is effectively an rms error in a dual band algorithm of 0.14K, assuming perfect atmospheric correction. Therefore, we have requested that the calibration be demonstrably accurate at the choice of 0.05K level to minimize the effect of calibration errors. The best atmospheric correction currently available for ATSR suggests that errors due to atmospheric correction in optimal cases for a nadir viewing instrument are approximately 0.3K [Mutlow, et al., 1994; Minnett, 1990; Barton, et al., 1993; Minnett, 1995b]. If one assumes that the calibration errors and the atmospheric errors are random and thus can be RSS’d, as in the preceding analysis, one sees that expected errors of 0.35K-0.4K in the result are the best that can be expected for two-band configurations. This equation also points out that there is a cost associated with adding more bands to improve atmospheric correction. In addition to providing information potentially useful for correcting the effects of the intervening atmosphere, each additional band also introduces noise into the SST retrieval. Sea surface temperature INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 93 5.4.2 Flow-Chart: INSAT-3D Thermal band Data Grey Value To Brightness Temperature Conversion Lookup Tables Cloud Detection threshold Cloud Detection Spatial coherence Land/Sea delineation SST Retrieval SST coefficients Map Overlay SST image/data Flowchart of SST processing software for INSAT-3D Day/Night Flag Single/split channel Land Sea Mask Cloud Mask Routine Sea surface temperature INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 94 5.4.3 Operational Implementation Step-1. Determine radiances using the processed Imager data and convert radiances to temperature using lookup table. Step-2. Processing for discrimination between radiances from cloud free sea surface and those from the cloud tops as discussed in section 1.4.1.1.4 Step-3. Correction for atmospheric attenuation is taken care in SST computation for multichannel SST retrieval, but in case of availability of only one thermal channel, total water vapour field