during Northern Hemisphere winter. This makes snow albedo and area an important component of the Earth's radiation balance (Foster and Chang, 1993). Large areas in the Himalayas are also covered by snow Snow depth INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 116 during wintertime. Area of snow can change significantly during winter and spring. This can affect stream flow during spring and summer of the rivers originating in the Higher Himalayas. In order to make optimum utilization of snow information for hydrological, climatological and disaster purpose, snow depth is an important parameter. In addition, snow pack ablation is highly sensitive to climatic variation. Increase in atmospheric temperature can influence snowmelt and stream runoff pattern (Kulkarni, et al. 2002a). Therefore, mapping of areal extent and reflectance of snow is an important parameter for various climatological and hydrological applications. In addition, extent of snow cover can also be used as an input for avalanche investigation. Snow was first observed by satellite in eastern Canada from the TIROS-1 satellite in April 1960. Since then, the potential for operational satellite-based mapping has been enhanced by the development of higher temporal-frequency and satellite sensors with higher spatial resolution. In addition, satellite sensors with better radiometric resolutions, such as MODIS and AWiFS have been used successfully for snow mapping (Hall et al. 2002; Kulkarni et. al. 2006). This is possibly due to distinct spectral reflectance characteristics of snow in visible and short wave infrared region. Information generated from satellite observations has been extensively used for snowmelt runoff modeling (Kulkarni et al. 2002b). Remote sensing technique has been extensively used for snow cover monitoring in the Himalayan region with the help of numerous satellite sensors (Kulkarni and Rathore. 2003). Various analysis techniques as visual, hybrid (Visual and supervised classification) have been used to estimate areal extent of snow cover