4 km spatial resolution with Transverse Mercator projection routinely from MOSDAC site (http://www.mosdac.gov.in). Potential evapotranspiration INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 312 19.2.3.3 Operational product of WRF short-range forecast Weather Research and Forecasting (WRF; Skamarock et al., 2008) Model version 3.1 is used for All India Short range weather forecast. WRF is a limited area, non-hydrostatic, primitive equation model with multiple options for various physical parameterization schemes. This version employs Arakawa C-grid staggering for the horizontal grid and a fully compressible system of equations. The terrain following hydrostatic pressure co- ordinate with vertical grid stretching is followed in vertical. The time-split integration uses 3rd order Runge-Kutta scheme with a smaller time step for acoustic and gravity wave modes. The WRF physical options used in this proposal consists of the WRF Single Moment 6-class simple ice scheme for microphysics (WSM6); the Grell-Devenyi ensemble cumulus convection parameterization scheme; and the Yonsei University (YSU) planetary boundary layer scheme. The WRF Model is integrated in a triple domain configuration with a horizontal resolution of 45 km, 15 km and 5 km for the All India, with grid points 260×235, 352×373 and 676×721 in x and y directions for the domains 1, 2 and 3, respectively. The model has 36 vertical levels with the top of the model atmosphere located at 10 hPa. The WRF 3D-Var is used for the assimilation of all available conventional including ISRO- AWS data and satellite observations to improve the model initial conditions. The operational WRF short-range forecasts (Kumar et al., 2011), available at MOSDAC site used climatological land surface and atmospheric parameters from global database and assimilated all available conventional including ISRO-AWS and satellite observations (Kumar et al., 2011; Singh et al., 2011) from Indian and other International agencies (e.g. EUMETCast). The operational forecast is available at finer spatial resolution