TOA reflectances of snow/ice and then developed the relationship between bidirectional TOA reflectances and broadband albedos using an empirical training method; they divided the solar/view geometry space into angular bins and calculated the regression coefficients of each angular bin using a linear regression method. Qu et al. (2015) have provided detailed review of algorithms for albedo. Here, we propose to develop a direct-estimation algorithm by employing an atmospheric radiative transfer code to simulate the TOA directional reflectances in the two spectral bands of INSAT-3D Imager located in visible (0.55-0.75 um) and shortwave infrared- SWIR (1.55-1.70 um) wavelengths and also calculate the broadband reflectance in the shortwave band (0.4-2.5 um), and then establishing a relationship between the TOA reflectances and the broadband reflectance using the regression method, which would yield narrow to broadband conversion coefficients. An approach for estimating land surface broadband albedo from multispectral remote sensing observations is a hybrid approach that combines extensive radiative transfer simulations (physical) with regression methods (statistical). It directly links the TOA radiance or reflectance to surface broadband albedo without performing different processes as per the first approach. Here narrowband-to-broadband spectral conversion by considering the spectral response function of INSAT-3D Incremental ATBD (MMDRPS), November 2018 37 the sensor in various spectral bands of the instrument is the main step required to derive the albedo. Figure 1 shows the spectral signatures of major surfaces with the relative spectral response (RSR) of INSAT-3D Imager instrument. A weighting factors (Narrow to broad band conversion coefficients) are to be determined with the radiative transfer simulations. This approach has been successfully used to estimate broadband albedo from MODIS data (Liang et al., 2003). Figure 1. A typical spectral distribution of the reflectances for vegetation, soil, snow over shortwave solar spectrum range shown with the RSR of two spectral bands: visible