for global waters. This study concludes that ABOM-derived chl-a (mg/m3) improves significantly with an uncertainty of 58% as compared to GSM (175%) and Lee–Bio (189%) algorithms. Further the study reveals the bio-optical models developed for global oceans needs to be regionally parameterized for optical components in complex waters bodies to accurately estimate the magnitudes of optical constituents. Similarly, in ABOM2, the study attempted to bring about improvement in the parameterization of Lee inversion model using the global NOMAD in-situ dataset. The parameterization to inversion model successfully estimated detritus and CDOM absorption coefficients with uncertainty of 40% and 30%, respectively. Also, the integrated response of CDOM and detritus after parameterization, had a lesser uncertainty of 29% as compared to GSM and Lee-Morel-Bricaud (LMB) model whose uncertainties were 30% and 33%, respectively. Similar results can be obtained globally by introducing a new parameterization to inversion model for deriving detritus absorption. This might be quite significant in deriving the sub components of inherent optical properties (IOPs) within the acceptable uncertainty. Acknowledgment We acknowledge Director, Space Applications Centre (ISRO), Ahmedabad for his continuous support for pursuing this study. We are thankful to Deputy Director, Earth, Ocean, Atmosphere, Planetary Sciences and Applications Area (EPSA), ISRO for his continuous encouragement for the present work. Thanks and acknowledgments are due to all those who contributed for NOMAD/SeaBASS in situ data, which formed a valuable pooled data set. The authors are also thankful to Wetland Research and Training Centre, Chilika Development Authority (Department of Forest and Environment, Government of Odisha, Balugaon, India) for their support in data collection campaigns in Chilika Lake during 2014 and 2015. Thanks are also due to all those who supported directly or indirectly for this work. References [1] J. E. O’Reilly et al., “Ocean color chlorophyll algorithms for seawifs,” J. Geophys. Res., Oceans,