employed to derive the vector fields, theoretical basis and practical aspects of this algorithm and outlined the planned validation approach. 11.2.1 Overview and background Spatio–temporal analysis of meteorological events is an important part of routine numerical weather analysis. In that context, a cloud tracking method is presented here for a sequence of geostationary satellite images. Given a pair of remotely sensed images, captured at a fixed time interval (typically, 30 min), the objective is to derive motion vectors associated with the cloud mass. This correspondence process is a useful precursor to cloud motion vector (CMV) studies and spatio–temporal analysis of cloud life cycles. The spatio–temporal life cycle includes the generation, dissipation and assimilation of clouds that can be observed in a sequence of geostationary satellite images. During the 1970’s and early 1980’s, cloud motion winds were produced in major operational centers like NESDIS (National Environmental Satellite Data and Information Service) using a combination of automated and manual techniques. Early automated techniques supplied quality low-level vectors but often yielded in consistent quality for mid- and high-level motions. Height assignment was automatic but often contained errors for semitransparent cirrus clouds. In the subsequent years, due to the developments in image-processing and pattern recognition techniques (Merill et al., 1991), it Cloud motion vector INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 166 was possible to design fully automatic techniques for CMV retrieval, and NESDIS began its application in 1992. In later time, several new developments were made to make accurate retrievals of cloud motion winds. For example, CO2 slicing algorithm was replaced by H2O intercept algorithm for assigning the height to semitransparent tracers. Other improvements were (i) automated correction of navigation inconsistencies within the imageries (ii) inclusion of spatial filters in tracer selection methodology to filter undesirable scenes. 11.2.2 Objective The main objective of this study