two approaches. They are much like statistical retrievals, but they do not require a large training dataset. They use weighting functions like physical retrievals, but they do not directly involve integration of the RTE. Hybrid methods are easier to apply than the statistical or physical methods. They require knowledge of the transmittances, and they employ statistical knowledge of the atmosphere. To summarize, there is no unique solution for the detailed vertical profile of temperature or an absorbing constituent because: a. The outgoing radiances arise from relatively deep layers of the atmosphere, b. The radiances observed within various spectral channels come from overlapping layers of the atmosphere and are not vertically independent of each other, and c. Measurements of outgoing radiance possess errors. As a consequence, there are a large number of analytical approaches to the profile retrieval problem. The approaches differ both in the procedure for solving the set of spectrally independent radiative transfer equations (e.g. matrix inversion, numerical iteration) and in the type of ancillary data used to constrain the solution to insure a meteorologically meaningful result (e.g. use of atmospheric covariance statistics, use of an a priori estimate of the profile structure). Various methods of sounding retrievals have been reviewed by Fleming and Smith, 1971; Fritz et al., 1972; Rodgers, 1976; Twomey, 1977; and Houghton et al. 1984. Following sections describe the mathematical basis for two-step procedure, which will be used in the development of retrieval algorithm for atmospheric profiles from INSAT-3D Sounder measurements. Temperature, Moisture Profile and Total Ozone from Sounder INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 253 16.4.1.2 Flow Chart: Present sounder retrieval algorithm includes two steps: 1. Generation of hybrid first-guess profiles using weighted average of regression retrieval and forecast profiles. 2. First-guess profile is adjusted to match the observed radiances in an iterative procedure in