on its likelihood of matching the observations, collectively form a probability distribution. Normalizing the weights ensures that they sum up to one, effectively representing the likelihood of observing ğ‘‘ across all particles. Thus, the ğ‘ğ‘‘(ğ‘‘) can be written as: ğ‘ğ‘‘(ğ‘‘) = âˆ‘ ğ‘¤ğ‘– ğ‘ ğ‘–=1 (3) where ğ‘¤ğ‘– is the weight of each particle computed with respect to the observations. The computation of weights is a crucial step in the particle filter technique and is represented by: ğ‘¤ğ‘–= ğ‘(ğ‘‘|ğœ“ğ‘–) âˆ‘ ğ‘(ğ‘‘|ğœ“ğ‘–) ğ‘ ğ‘–=1 (4) Therefore, ğ‘¤ğ‘– represents the likelihood of observing ğ‘‘ given each particle ğœ“ğ‘– compared to the total likelihood of observing ğ‘‘ across all particles. As mentioned earlier, weights are already normalized so that their sum is unity. Weight is inversely proportional to the distance between a given observation and its model background. The distance is taken to be usual root mean square difference between model chlorophyll and OCM-3 derived chlorophyll, taken over those model grids where observations are available on a particular day. Thus, the particles close to observation receive more weight as compared to farther ones. In this study, model particles of chlorophyll close to OCM-3 derived chlorophyll assign large weightage and becomes strong particles, while weak particles are discarded. The posterior distribution is then represented by the set of particles with stronger weights. These particles, with higher weights, are considered to be more likely to represent the true state of the system based on the available observations. 3.4. Particle filter and its implementation procedure One critical aspect of the ensemble-based approach in high-dimensional coupled models is the generation of a large number of ensembles or particles needed to closely approximate the posterior probability density of the system. Particle generation in this study is done using bootstrapping sampling by introducing random biases to the background field