theoretical basis and practical aspects of this algorithm and outlined the planned validation approach. 13.2.1. Overview and background Spatio–temporal analysis of meteorological events is an important part of routine numerical weather analysis. In that context, a cloud tracking method is presented here for a sequence of geostationary satellite images. Given a pair of remotely sensed images, captured at a fixed time interval (typically, 30 min), the objective is to derive motion vectors associated with the cloud mass. This correspondence process is a useful precursor to cloud motion vector studies and spatio– temporal analysis of cloud life cycles. The spatio–temporal life cycle includes the generation, dissipation and assimilation of clouds that can be observed in a sequence of geostationary satellite images. During the 1970’s and early 1980’s, cloud motion winds were produced in major operational centers like NESDIS (National Environmental Satellite Data and Information Service) using a combination of automated and manual techniques. Early automated techniques supplied quality low-level vectors from visible channels but often yielded in consistent quality for mid- and high-level motions. Height assignment for the visible winds is done with collocated infrared images using infrared window technique. In the subsequent years, due to the developments in image-processing and pattern recognition techniques (Merill et al., 1991), it was possible to design fully automatic techniques for wind retrieval, and NESDIS began its application in 1992. In later INSAT-3D Incremental ATBD (MMDRPS), November 2018 136 time, several new developments were made to make accurate retrievals of winds from satellite images. 13.2.2. Objective The main objective of this study is to derive the High Resolution Visible Winds (HRVIS) over sea using multiple successive half hourly High resolution visible images. The region over which the winds are derived should be in the range of 500 from sub-satellite point. 13.3. Inputs 13.3.1 Static Data