types such as clouds and background surfaces has complicated the problem. Till date, very few studies have been done to discriminate smoke in a satellite imagery. The most commonly used method of identifying smoke is to assign different colors to different channels or channel combinations. The resulting false-color images can provide visual separation of smoke from other objects. For example, Kaufman et al. [2] assigned AVHRR channel 1 to red, channel 2 to green, and inverse channel 4 to blue, generating a composite image showing smoke plumes [3]. The Hazard Mapping System (HMS) developed in 2001 by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administrations (NOAA) National Environmental Satellite and Data Information Service (NESDIS) also generated the smoke outlines manually, primarily utilizing animated visible band satellite imagery. Smoke plumes and their path can also be traced using temporal satellite imagery, through image processing techniques. But this methodology is a manual detection technique and can hardly be used for automatic detection of smoke in satellite imageries. Some sporadic efforts in the direction of distinguishing smoke in satellite imagery has been made in the past. The Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite GOES-8 employed the automated smoke/ aerosol detection algorithm (ASADA) to monitor biomass burning in South America [4], while some attempts for automatic detection of smoke using artificial neural networks and threshold approaches applied to AVHRR imagery was made by Li et al [3] In general, smoke is composed of many small particles suspended in the air. These particles scatter and absorb (attenuate) different spectra of electromagnetic radiation. This absorption reduces transmittance of that radiation through the smoke. The effect of smoke aerosol as function of wavelength forms the crux of its satellite detection algorithm. Smoke has a large effect in the visible part of the spectrum, decreasing in magnitude with wavelength from the blue