Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) (CLAVR) algorithm (Stowe et al. 1999) which uses spectral and spatial thresholds to test for the presence of clouds. The retrieval of aerosol information from INSAT-3D imager data is a two-step process: 1) Cloud masking 2) Composite the visible images to estimate the surface reflectance, and 3) Use the surface reflectance with an image to retrieve the aerosol optical depth. Cloud Masking Clouds are generally characterized by higher reflectance and lower temperature than the underlying earth surface. As such, simple visible and infrared window threshold approaches offer considerable skill in cloud detection. Following threshold based tests will be performed to detect the cloudy pixles. a) Visible and Mid-wave Infrared Window Reflectance Threshold Test The reflectance threshold test using visible band of INSTA-3D along with 3.9 micron channel where values > 6% are considered to be cloudy, will be used. b) IR Window Temperature Threshold and Difference Tests Simple thresholds based cloud screening test will be established over land and ocenic features using the TIR data of the INSAT-3D. Surface Reflectance Retrieval Estimating the surface contribution to the TOA INSAT-3D Imager visible reflectance is difficult since observations will have atmospheric contamination. For instance, a visible observation from INSAT-3D Imager on a cloudless day with low aerosol burden will still have: gaseous absorption (primarily, ozone and water vapour); Rayleigh scattering; and residual aerosol extinction. This atmospheric component to the TOA reflectance needs to be removed to retrieve the surface reflectance. While studies have shown it is possible to estimate the surface component from observations in the near-infrared (e.g. 2.1 m) where aerosol and Rayleigh scattering are very low, the INSAT-3D imager lacks an observation at this wavelength. Therefore, a compositing method will be used to estimate the surface reflectance. The visible imagery is composited to determine the