Total Ozone from Sounder INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 253 16.4.1.2 Flow Chart: Present sounder retrieval algorithm includes two steps: 1. Generation of hybrid first-guess profiles using weighted average of regression retrieval and forecast profiles. 2. First-guess profile is adjusted to match the observed radiances in an iterative procedure in physical retrieval routine. Flow chart of the algorithm is shown in figure-2. 16.4.2 Operational Implementation: Operational implementation of the retrieval scheme for INSAT-3D Sounder includes the following procedures:  Development of fast forward radiative transfer model to compute Sounder channels radiances given atmospheric state as input.  Identification of cloud free pixels  Derivation of first-guess atmospheric profiles of temperature, humidity and ozone, and surface skin temperature from Sounder radiances using statical regression.  Retrieval of final profiles through physical retrieval routine, which iteratively adjusts first-guess profiles to match the observed radiances. Fig.2: Retrieval Algorithm for INSAT-3D Sounder Hybrid First Guess (X0) (Regression & Forecast) Compute radiances (Forward model) Compare Calculate residual INSAT Sounder Radiances Cloud detection/clearing Apply Radiance Bias Exit Physical retrieval fail Regression as final retrieval Pass < 8 Residual > Threshold Iterate with new profile Pass = 8 Residual > Threshold Residual < Threshold Output (X) Physical retrieval successful Xn+1 = X0 + (Kn T E-1 Kn + I)-1. {Kn T E-1 [Yn m + Kn (Xn – X0)] + (Xn – X0)} Clear FOV Exit Cloudy FOV Temperature, Moisture Profile and Total Ozone from Sounder INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 254 16.4.2.1 Fast Forward Radiative Transfer Model: Remote sensing of atmospheric profiles from satellite is critically dependent on our ability to calculate observed radiances as a function of the atmospheric state. This “forward problem” is the heart of the physically based retrieval algorithms. The high rate of satellite observations requires a forward model fast enough to