three dimensional dynamics. MOM gives a wide array of vertical mixing schemes and the present model configuration used KPP scheme. 2.3.2.2. Description of the Ecosystem model The present configuration for global ocean is a coupled one, in which MOM5, the ocean component is coupled to an ocean ecosystem model. A comprehensive model of oceanic ecosystems and biogeochemical cycles is used to understand and simulate the ocean ecosystem. The model used is Tracers Of Phytoplankton and Allometric Zooplankton (TOPAZ). TOPAZ is a state of the art model that considers 22 tracers including three phytoplankton groups, two forms of dissolved organic matter, heterotrophic biomass, and dissolved inorganic species for C, N, P, Si, Fe, CaCO3 and O2 cycling. The model includes such processes as gas exchange, atmospheric deposition, scavenging, N2 ï¬xation and water column and sediment denitriï¬cation, and runoï¬€ of C, N, Fe, O2, alkalinity and lithogenic material. The phytoplankton functional groups undergo co-limitation by light, nitrogen, phosphorus and iron with ï¬‚exible physiology. Loss of phytoplankton is parameterized through the size-based relationship of Dunne et al. (2012b). Particle export is described through size and temperature based detritus formation and mineral protection during sinking with a mechanistic, solubility-based representation alkalinity addition from rivers, CaCO3 sedimentation and sediment preservation and dissolution. For each model state variable C , the continuity equation is solved ğœ•ğ¶ ğœ•ğ‘¡= âˆ’âˆ‡. ğ‘¢Ìƒğ¶+ âˆ‡ğ¾âˆ‡ğ‘+ ğ‘†ğ¶ Where ğ‘¢Ìƒ is the velocity vector from the OGCM , ğ¾ is the diffusivity, and ğ‘†ğ¶ is the sum of the sources and sinks for state variable C. 2.3.2.3 Coupled biogeochemical - physical model (MOM5-TOPAZ) The coupled biogeochemical - physical model is configured for global ocean with a horizontal resolution of 25 km and a variable vertical resolution with a very fine near surface and coarser towards the bottom of ocean. There are 50 levels