NWP model is in development phase and fast radiative transfer (RT) model have large uncertainties over cloudy regions, and have complex nonlinearity in assimilation when clouds exist (Bauer et al. 2011). Therefore, cloudy infrared (IR) radiance is still part of ongoing research and development activities and is not the part of operational assimilation system. Nevertheless, the method of assimilation of clear sky brightness temperature (satellite observation which are not affected by the presence of clouds) has already reached to matured stage, therefore, used operationally in providing weather forecast. Thus clear sky brightness temperature (CSBT) is a very important parameter from the NWP data assimilation applications. clear sky radiance assimilation has become the indispensable part of assimilation system. For clear sky radiance assimilation, it is essential to eliminate the cloudy pixels in order to retain only clear-sky radiances only. Usually a binary mask (clear/cloudy) Version Date Prepared by Description 1.0 01.03.2018 M. V. Shukla, P. K. Thapliyal, and C. M. Kishtawal CSBT product is useful for radiance assimilation in NWP model INSAT-3D Incremental ATBD (MMDRPS), November 2018 87 is prepared from satellite data (Zupanski et al. 2007; Razagui et al. 2011). Pangaud et al. (2009) and Eresmaa (2014) found that if cloudy radiances are assimilated as clear radiances, the quality of the NWP analysis/prediction impacted negatively. 7.3. Objective The main objective of this document is to provide the theoretical basis for calculating clear sky brightness temperature (CSBT) for INSAT-3D/3DR TIR-1 and water vapor channels. The proposed algorithm will be applied to estimate CSBT over 0.50x0.50 field of regard (FOR) along with statistical parameters and a confidence flag that will help in using CSBT value in DA process. CSBT product is calculated for only clear pixels identified by INSAT-3D/3DR imager cloud mask (CMK) product. The algorithm has no limitation based on geographical