to rainfall and other ocean and atmospheric variables, to decouple their influence for using in a rain- rate calculations in particular based on the above data base. 3. The screening process to distinguish between different land types, raining- nonraining background conditions associated with the emission and scattering characteristics of hydrometeors etc. using multichannel brightness temperatures from MADRAS (Following Ferraro et al. 1996 for SSM/I). 4. A matched data base of radiometer brightness temperatures and ground/ocaen rainfall from various sources (TRMM-PR, DWR, AWS, RG etc.) would be created. Based on the radiative transfer simulations as a bench mark, sensitivity studies and screening criterion mentioned above, would be applied to the data. 5. Following the background conditions and emission and scattering associated with hydrometeors, separate algorithms for land and oceans Megha-Tropiques ATBD Ver 3.0 17 will be developed based on the Scattering Index (SI) Method (by Ferraro et al. 1996). 6. Finally the rain rates will be retrieved using SI along with the collocated ground/ocean based data following multiple regression and/or Neural Network approach. 7. The resulting rain-rate estimates will be compared to four Doppler Weather Radars (DWR) as well as to buoys and shipboard measurements over a first 6-month period (during calibration/validation phase). 8. The retrieval algorithm would be attempted for the complete global estimates from the MADRAS based on the ground truth data availability from various continental and oceanic buoy and ship based sources. 9. The algorithm will be tested for its accuracy to describe both localized instantaneous rainfall events and global rainfall patterns over both land and oceans. Fig. 2 Flow Diagrams showing the Concept of Rainfall Retrieval: 2.5.4 The inverse problem: In the last decade, there has been a growing interest in developing rain profile retrieval algorithms trained by cloud radiative databases (Smith et al.1994). This Megha-Tropiques ATBD