(2001) and Knapp et al. (2002) showed that aerosol monitoring from GOES is possible for South America. However, this region has optimal retrieval conditions: surface cover with little variability (i.e. rainforest) and large aerosol optical depths (from biomass burning). Recent study by Knapp et al. (2005) has shown operational potential of GOES series of sensors for the monitoring of aerosol optical depth over land. A method is proposed by Knapp et al (2005) to correct surface effects and retrieve aerosol optical depth using visible reflectance measurements from the Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite (GOES). The surface contribution is determined from temporal compositing of visible imagery, where darker pixels correspond to less atmospheric attenuation and surface reflectance is deduced from the composite using radiative transfer. The method is applied to GOES-8 imagery over the eastern US. Retrieved surface reflectance is compared with separate retrievals using a priori ground based observations of aerosol optical depth. 10.4.1.1 Theoretical Background The INSAT-3D imager data will be used to perform the surface reflectance and aerosol optical depth () retrievals and mask for clouds. It measures top of the atmosphere (TOA) radiance in six channels: three at infrared wavelengths, one in the visible wavelength and one sensitive to both solar and Earth-emitted radiance. Primarily, the visible channel Aerosols INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 157 (0.52–0.72 mm full width at half maximum) is sensitive to aerosol scattering, so the remaining channels are used for cloud masking. The cloud mask algorithm is based on the Clouds from the Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) (CLAVR) algorithm (Stowe et al. 1999) which uses spectral and spatial thresholds to test for the presence of clouds. The retrieval of aerosol information from INSAT-3D imager data is a two-step process: 1) Cloud masking 2) Composite the visible images to estimate the surface reflectance,