mesoscale studies etc. 19 channel Sounder, split thermal window channels, a mid IR thermal window channel and shortwave IR channel are the additions to earlier INSAT-3A/Kalpana satellites. Details of Imager channels are given in Table-1. Sea surface temperature would be derived from split thermal window channels (10.2- 11.3m, 11.5 –12.5m) during daytime and using additional mid IR window channel (3.7 – 4.1m) during nighttime over cloud free oceanic regions. The most important part of the SST retrieval from IR observations is the atmospheric correction. Specially over tropics, this atmospheric correction is dominated by the high variability in vertical distribution of the intervening atmospheric water vapor. This correction will be determined through suitable characterization of tropical atmospheres in radiative transfer model to simulate the brightness temperatures of INSAT-3D channels and then generating the regression coefficients for SST retrieval. Details of the algorithm have been given in section 1.4.1.1. 5.2.1 Overview and background This algorithm basis theoretical document (ATBD) describes our current working models of the algorithms for the retrieval of sea surface temperature from INSAT-3D imager channels data. While effort has been made to make this document as complete as Sea surface temperature INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 88 possible, it should be recognized that algorithm development is an evolving process. This document (V1.0) is a description of the prototype algorithm for INSAT-3D sea surface temperature estimation as it currently exists, and is being delivered for inclusion in the INSAT-3D processing scheme. Current research on the physics of the atmospheric transmission in the infrared, the processes at the ocean surface, and new information about the performance of the satellite will lead to periodic revisions of the algorithms. Also, the document may appear incomplete in places as research continues to improve our understanding of the processes at work. Subsequent revisions of the