also corrected for Rayleigh reflectance. Then precomputed look tables (using 6S radiative transfer model) that consist spherical albedo, reflectance, transmittance as a function of sun-sensor geometry and aerosol optical thickness are used to simulate theoretical Rayleigh corrected reflectance which is then compared with observed Rayleigh corrected INSAT-3DR reflectance to obtained aerosol optical depth. It is to noted that over land continental aerosol model is used while over ocean maritime aerosol model is used. In previous versions of AOD retrival algorithm, single scattering approximation was used for inverting AOD, assuming perfectly scattering aerosol (single scattering albedo assumed to be unity). Figure 2 shows the schematic flow chart of the aerosol optical thickness (AOD) retrieval procedure. Aerosol 10.4.1.2 Flow Chart 10.4.2 Operational Implementation Step 1: Conversion from gray count to visible radiance and TIR brightness temperature. Step 2: Cloud Masking. Step 3: Conversion of TOA radiance to TOA reflectance. Step 4: Correction of TOA reflectance for gaseous absorption and Rayleigh scattering. Step 5: Generation of clear composite image using darkest observation using last 28-days data. Step 6: Atmospheric correction of clear composite image for background aerosol and generation of Lambartian surface reflectance. Step 7: Correct current day visible data for gaseous absorption and molecular scattering. Step 8: Invert current day Rayleigh corrected reflectance to get AOD using Lambartian surface reflectance and pre-computed LUTs. Aerosol 10.5 Outputs Parameter Unit Min Max Accuracy Resolution Aerosol optical depth at 550 nm Dimensionless 0 5 15-20% 10 Km 10.5.1 format of the output and the domain Lat , Lon, AOD , Domain : 40 to 40 N, 30 E to 120 E 10.6 Validation 10.6.1 Data required Prameter Resolution Source AERONET spectral AOD data In-situ point observation AERONET sites in India Kanpur, Gandhi college (Patna) and Jaipur Spectral AOD using handheld sun-photometer In-situ point observation Data