: Interpolation of climatic gridded AOD550, ozone and resampling Another sub-program should use eight-day gridded (1° x 1°) climatological aerosol optical depth (AOD) and ozone to extract from global products for the latitude and Surface insolation over land INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 348 longitude bounds of south-east Asia corresponding to K1VHRR Asia Mercator sector coverages. These can be resampled down to 8 km spatial resolution using bilinear interpolation and reprojected to INSAT 3D Imager projection. Step 4 : Generation of time series instantaneous insolation The main program should compute time series instantaneous global (direct + diffuse) insolation for a given acquisition using the outputs from other sub-programs, clear-sky and cloudy-sky models. Step 5 : Daily integration Another program should perform trapezoidal integration of both bias-uncorrected and bias-corrected instantaneous insolation at 23:30 hrs GMT on a given day. This program should fetch instantaneous insolation from different acquisitions on a given day and make a list. This program should first check at least one acquisition within two hours and then daily integration should be performed. It means that If at least well distributed five instantaneous insolation are available in the list, the integration is performed. The whole algorithm has been implemented with Kalpana-1 VHRR data from 2012 to generate operational products on insolation after the clearance by ATBD review committee set-up by Director, SAC and in-house T & E has also been carried out. The same algorithm was applied with INSAT 3D ‘Imager’ data to estimate instantaneous insolation over limited datasets 20.5 Outputs Table 5 Parameter Unit Min Max Accuracy Resolution A. Instantaneous outputs containing (i) Instantaneous insolation without bias correction (ii) Instantaneous insolation with bias correction (iii)Latitude (iv) Longitude Wm-2 Wm-2 Degree Degree 0 0 1200 1200 90% 90% 4000 m 4000 m 4000 m 4000 m B. Daily insolation