algorithms, referred to as physically based, are derived using radiative transfer calculations through cloud-model simulated fields (Kummerow et al. 1996, Haferman et al. 1997). The physically based algorithms were mainly investigated in over ocean retrievals. Such physically based retrieval over land are few and have not indicated better performance relative to purely statistical algorithms (Druen and Heinemann 1998), which are conceptually simpler and more practical for applications. In the beginning an algorithm for oceanic rainfall was developed for 19.35 GHz observations from Nimbus-5 Electrically Scanning Microwave Radiometer (ESMR) by Wilheit et al. (1977). Further modification to the algorithm was made by using statistical technique for multichannel data in the Nimbus-7 Scanning Multichannel Microwave Radiometer (SMMR) data (Wilheit and Chang 1980). Currently the 85 GHz channel in DMSP-SSM/I (F10, F11, F12, F13) and TRMM-TMI offers better possibilities of rainfall estimation. The optimal combination of integrated MW and IR observations offers a unique opportunity for rainfall retrieval more accurately (Gairola and Krishnamurti 1992, Gairola et al. 2005, Jobard and Desbois 1994, Adler et al. 1994, Liu et al. 1995). However it requires the rainfall from individual streams (either IR or MW based) Megha-Tropiques ATBD Ver 3.0 11 rain algorithms well placed. In addition to various SSM/I sensors presently available for the rainfall estimation, the Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission (TRMM) provides the best opportunity with all type of passive (MW and VIS/IR) and active (MW) sensors onboard as a prelude to the Megha-Tropiques. 2.3. System Description MADRAS (Microwave Analysis and Detection of Rain and Atmospheric Structures) The proposed MADRAS system is a five-channel, self-calibrating, microwave radiometer system. This radiometer is designed to estimate atmospheric water parameters in the tropical belt. The choice of the channels has been driven by their potential contribution to the measurement of the parameters defined above, from the experience