elaborate instantaneous rainrate estimations for research and nowcasting (Ba and Gruber, 2001; Turk et al., 2000; Vicente et al., 1998). Recent technological developments of MW instruments on board polar orbiters have been dramatic but the use of VIS, IR and water vapor (WV) channels of geostationary satellites is still indispensable. In particular, the launch of the newest generation of geostationary satellites, the Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite GOES-I-M series (Menzel and Purdom,1994) and the upcoming METEOSAT Second Generation (MSG) (Schmetz et al., 2002) with its Spinning Enhanced Visible and Infrared Imager (SEVIRI), adds new channels to the traditional VIS/IR/WV triplet. Some of the new channels have been tested for decades as part of the Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) series on board the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) polar orbiters or have other heritages. Multispectral data have long since been available both from polar orbiting and geostationary satellite sensors and used for retrieving cloud properties. The relevant channels for cloud characterization were part of the payload of the polar satellites, while the sensors at geosynchronous altitude were almost exclusively devoted to VIS-IR operational monitoring of precipitation system displacements. This has considerably changed in the past few years since more and more sophisticated sensors have been conceived for the GEO orbits that will allow for global real-time cloud characterization. Cloud radiative properties at VIS, near IR (NIR) and IR wavelengths have long since been studied and documented (among others Arking and Childs, 1985; Cheng et al., 1993, Saunders and Kriebel, 1988; Slingo and Schrecker, 1982). In the thermal IR the radiative properties are sensitive to the size distribution of the hydrometeors. In particular, an increase in the particle size increases the transmissivity, decreasing the reflectivity and increasing the emissivity of the cloud layer. This latter dominates at these wavelengths. In