have been generated by Department of Agricultural Meteorology, IMD (India Meteorological Department) from measurements of limited surface observatories in India. But interpolation from such contours will propagate large errors. No digital map of ETo is available to scientific community, modelers, resource managers and planners in India. Moreover, real-time updated spatial ETo product at weekly, ten-day, fortnightly and monthly scales would aid in knowing the intra and inter-seasonal climatic variability of water stress factors and their impact on deviation in biomass and yield. The climatic moisture index (ratio of rainfall INSAT-3D Incremental ATBD (MMDRPS), November 2018 201 and PET) is essential to know surface wetness and suitability of sowing or transplanting operations. Therefore, it has the relevance for national agro-advisory services to farmers as well as crop forecasting. 17.2.1. Overview and background The latent heat of vaporization, which is the energy required for evaporating water is significant in weather and climate dynamics (Priestley & Taylor, 1972; Monteith,1973; Rowntree, 1991; Anderson et al., 2007). Although the concept of “evaporation” has been known since approximately 500 B.C. (see Brutsaert, 1982 for a chronological sketch), most of the understanding of the governing factors has been achieved in the last two centuries. Dalton (1802) was the first who proposed relationship of vapor pressure deficit (esat−eact) of the near surface air to the evaporation rate. Later, many empirical relationships were developed based on other environmental factors (Blaney and Criddle, 1950; Hargreaves, 1975; Thornthwaite, 1948). Based on available energy considerations and turbulent flux theory, Penman (1948) developed his evaporation equation for natural surfaces for water non-limiting conditions. This is known as potential evapotranspiration (PET). Monteith (1964) developed a modified version of the Penman equation in which biophysics was introduced through a surface or canopy resistance – the now well-known Penman–Monteith (P-M) combination equation – that allowed for