on cloudiness index from VIS band observations. Much of the uncertainties in insolation and ETo estimates in cloudy-skies will hopefully be improved. Recent study on impact of updated vegetation fraction from INSAT 3A CCD showed improvement in air temperature, humidity and rainfall forecast from WRF. The use of real-time satellite based other land surface products such as albedo, LAI and soil moisture would definitely help in improving the quality of operational forecasts. Future work should address the retrieval / estimation of those variables from Indian geostationary satellites. The INSAT 3D will provide relatively finer spatial resolution of observation of insolation. This would reduce the scale mismatch uncertainty for validation. INSAT-3D Incremental ATBD (MMDRPS), November 2018 227 References Allen, R., Pereira, L., Raes, D., Smith, M., 1998. Crop evapotranspiration. Guidelines for Computing Crop Water Requirements. FAO Irrigation and Drainage Series No. 56, 15-28. Anderson, M. C., Norman, J. M., Mecikalski, J. R., Otkin, J. A., & Kustas, W. P. (2007). A climatological study of evapotranspiration and moisture stress across the continental United States based on thermal remote sensing: 1. Model formulation. Journal of Geophysical Research- Atmospheres, 112. Blaney, H. F. and Criddle, W. D. (1950). Determining water requirements in irrigated areas from climatological and irrigation data (pp. 48). : US Department of Agriculture Soil Conservation Service. Bhattacharya, B.K., Dutt, C.B.S. and Parihar, J.S. (2009). INSAT uplinked Agromet Station – A scientific tool with a network of automated micrometeorological measurements for soil-canopy- atmosphere feedback studies. ISPRS Archives XXXVIII-8/W3 Workshop Proceedings: Impact of Climate Change on Agriculture. Paper no. TS9.13 Bhattacharya, B. K. and Kumar, P. (2012a). AMS data Utilization for preliminary evaluation of operational forecast from WRF model. SAC project report (no. awaited) Bhattacharya, B. K., Padmanabhan, N., Ramakrishnan, R., Panigrahy, S. and Parihar, J.S. (2012b). Algorithm Theretical Basis Document (ATBD) for