laid the foundation for relating evapotranspiration to meteorological variables (Allen et.al. 1998). Model simulations or empirical equations requiring meteorological data are the traditional way of estimating evapotranspiration such as gradient method, Bowen ratio method, eddy covariance method, lysimeter method. Malamos et.al. (2015) used PM method to estimate ET on the field scale level while Uddin et.al. (2013) used the Bowen ratio method & EC method to estimate latent heat fluxes. However, because of some practical reasons like diversity in land covers or temporal changes in the landscape, these methods may not represent the evapotranspiration at regional-scale effectively (Zhang et.al. 1995) The most frequently used method for estimating evapotranspiration at present is the Penman-Monteith equation. The energy balance concept and net radiation are used as the principal parameters in most of the remote sensing methods for estimating evapotranspiration (Li et.al. 2002). Till date, several energy balance algorithms are available for calculating ET through remote sensing. such as SEBAL (Bastiaanssen et.al.1998) and SEBS (Su,2002). They are single source model which consider soil and plant as single source. In addition to these, there are dual- source or two-source (soil and vegetation canopy) models, e.g. TSEB (Norman & Becker 1995), SEBI (Menenti & Choudhury 1993) and ALEXI (Anderson, Norman, Diak, kustas & Mecikalski, 1997). Therefore, considering the characteristics and significance of the various ET methods developed over the past decades, precise estimation of ET over regional scale based on the remote sensing technology has become a critical question in ET related studies. INSAT-3D Incremental ATBD (MMDRPS), November 2018 48 4.2.2. Objectives The objectives of this document are: (i) To outline the algorithm for the estimation of day-time and daily Evapotranspiration (ET) over land in all-sky conditions (ii) To implement the algorithm in IMDPS GPR (Geophysical Parameter Retrieval) chain for automation of ET product generation