were used to provide minimum ground brightness (surrogate of surface albedo) from previous 30 days, cloud top albedo, brightness temperatures, atmospheric water vapour as inputs to these models in addition to global eight-day aerosol optical depth at 550 nm and columnar ozone. A trapezoidal scheme was implemented to obtain daily insolation (in MJm-2) from half-an-hour instantaneous insolation (Wm-2) throughout the day for all-sky conditions (clear + cloudy). The whole algorithm (Bhattacharya et al, 2010 & 2012b) will be operationalized and daily insolation product can available at 4 km spatial resolution with Transverse Mercator projection routinely from MOSDAC site (http://www.mosdac.gov.in). 17.2.3.3. Operational product of WRF short-range forecast Weather Research and Forecasting (WRF; Skamarock et al., 2008) Model version 3.1 is used for All India Short range weather forecast. WRF is a limited area, non-hydrostatic, primitive equation model with multiple options for various physical parameterization schemes. This version employs Arakawa C-grid staggering for the horizontal grid and a fully compressible system of equations. The terrain following hydrostatic pressure co-ordinate with vertical grid stretching is followed in vertical. The time-split integration uses 3rd order Runge-Kutta scheme with a smaller time step for acoustic and gravity wave modes. The WRF physical options used in this proposal consists of the WRF Single Moment 6-class simple ice scheme for microphysics (WSM6); the Grell-Devenyi ensemble cumulus convection parameterization scheme; and the Yonsei University (YSU) planetary boundary layer scheme. The WRF Model is integrated in a triple domain configuration with a horizontal resolution of 45 km, 15 km and 5 km for the All India, with grid points 260×235, 352×373 and 676×721 in x and y directions for the domains 1, 2 and 3, respectively. The model has 36 vertical levels with the top of the model atmosphere located at 10 hPa. The WRF 3D-Var is used for