within acceptable limits i.e., ≤ 0.02 in reflectance units in the retrieved MIR reflectance. We would try and incorporate the more appropriate values of emissivities and transmittivities in the subsequent version of the algorithms. 16.4.2. Operational retrieval Implementation The operational implementation of the retrieval process can be enumerated as follows: Step 1: Extraction of the radiance (of MIR and 11µm) and WV data. Step 2: Preprocessing of all the ancillary inputs in terms of bringing all the inputs on the same geometrical scale. Step 3: Computation of the MIR reflectance (reflected component) using analytic equations (4 and 5, substituting value ot T from 4 into 5). 16.5. Outputs Generation of surface reflectance for the MIR band of INSAT-3DR/3D Imager. 16.5.1. Format of the output and the domain Geo-Tiff Image of Bottom of Atmosphere Surface reflectance and Top of Atmosphere Reflectance. 16.6. Validation Validation is still pending and to be discussed with calibration/validation team of SAC. 16.6.1. Data required Collocated MODIS/METEOSAT data of MIR band would be required for the comparison. INSAT-3D Incremental ATBD (MMDRPS), November 2018 198 16.6.2. Methods of validation Collocated data of INSAT-3DR and MODIS/METEOSAT would be compared over various uniform targets of different reflectance, for example over soil, vegetation and over some bright targets. 16.7 Technical issues (limitation etc.) Accuracy of the product will depend on the accuracy of the inputs. It would also be dependent on the calibration of the product. In the present version of the algorithm, we would assume the emissivities and transmittivities to be equal to 1.0. This assumption should cause errors within acceptable limits i.e., ≤ 0.02 in reflectance units in the retrieved MIR reflectance. We would try and incorporate more appropriate values of emissivities and transmittivities in the subsequent version of the algorithms. Emissivity/Temperature discrimination is not attempted in the present