the limitations of the ground measurements, the most convenient means to measure the precipitation over large area is by using the satellite-based methods. The satellites offer frequent uniform coverage over large area. However, the satellite measurements also suffer from large errors. While Vis./IR methods suffer from their inability to sense hydrometeors (Bhandari and Varma, 1995), microwave measurements suffer due to so called beam filling problem, and uncertainty in the drop-size distribution, drop temperature, fall velocity and shape and orientation of the drops (Varma et al, 2003, 2004 and Varma and Liu, 2006). Sea surface temperature INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 68 In this document, a new most advanced method is described for precipitation measurement. This method called Hydro-Estimator (H-E) method is developed by Robert Kuligowaski utilizes the infrared (IR) measurements from a geostationary satellite and is operationally used at NOAA/NESDIS. 4.2.1 Overview and Background Scofield (1987) described a method for measuring the intense precipitation over a storm. His method called Interactive Flash Flood Analyzer (IFFA) that used half-hourly satellite images to measure the precipitation over the active area of a storm. His method utilized the skill of a trained meteorologist to find out active portion of a storm. His method also utilized the precipitable water (PW) and water vapour (WV) correction to make modifications for dry/wet environment and saturation level adjustments for rain that comes from the warm clouds. This method was very successful for precipitation measurement but was highly subjective and needed continuous interaction of a trained meteorologist to decide the precipitation amount. Due to this reason, it was not very easy to implement it with ease. Successively, an alternate method called Auto-Estimator was developed. The aim of the Auto-Estimator was to provide an automated method without human intervention and that could take care of the subjective nature of