to enhance the MIR imagery by stretching the brightness temperature contrast in the warmer end of the spectrum (low levels). Specifically, the brightness temperature range from 50-160 is stretched. This enhancement greatly improves the gradients in the low- levels at the cost of confining the mid to upper-level gradients in the image. Therefore, tracer detection is strictly limited to cloud tracers ≥600 hPa (based on brightness temperature determined heights). The image enhancement technique is performed on the MIR images used to track the cloud features. 14.4.1.1.3 Tracer selection At the National Environmental Satellite, Data, and Information Service (NESDIS), the initial cloud features are selected by locating the highest pixel brightness values for each target domain and computing the local gradients around those locations (Nieman et al., 1997). Any gradients greater than 150K are assigned as target locations, and prospective targets also undergo a spatial coherence analysis (Coakley and Bretherton, 1982) to filter out unwanted targets. Water vapor tracers are generally identified using the local bi-directional gradients in a template of specified size and compared with empirically determined thresholds to identify Mid infra-red wind vectors INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 218 the features with sufficient variability (Velden et al., 1997) and those that pass the threshold value are identified as tracers for cloud-free environments. The pixel with maximum bi- directional gradient is the location of the tracer. At the European Organization for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites (EUMETSAT), the tracers in the Meteosat (first- generation satellites) images are selected using multispectral histogram analysis (Tomassini, 1981), which extracts the dominating scenes in an image segment. Later the selected templates undergo a spatial coherence analysis (Coakley and Bretherton, 1982) to filter the image, to enhance the upper-level cloud. In the present study the features are selected by computing local image anomaly in a