land surface albedo from the INSAT-3D Imager sensor, however detailed study is underway to establish the proposed method with more simulations involving additional land cover types. There is also a requirement to enhance the cloud removal technique, which will minimize the noise observed in the albedo retrieval. Moreover, issue related to the calibration of INSAT -3D Imager radiance has to be rectified for robust retrieval of the broadband albedo. INSAT-3D Incremental ATBD (MMDRPS), November 2018 42 Figure 3. Broadband albedo derived from INSAT-3D Imager data from the proposed method. 3.6. Summary and Future scope In this document, we have presented the algorithm theoretical basis (Version 1.0) for the broadband land surface albedo from INSAT-3D Imager dataset. The technique involves development of a direct-estimation of broadband land surface albedo from the observations of the INSAT-3D Imager sensor, which is available from the geostationary platform. Extensive theoretical modelling study was carried out, where an atmospheric radiative transfer model was used to simulate the TOA signals in two broad bands of Imager sensor for diverse land atmospheric scenario. After the simulation exercise was over, a relationship between TOA reflectances and land-surface broadband albedos was developed from the simulation results, which provided a set of conversion coefficients. A separate set of narrow to broadband conversion coefficients for each of the major land covers was generated for INSAT-3D Imager data. Using the proposed method broadband land surface albedo maps were generated over India from the TOA observations of INSAT-3D Imager sensor. Validation of the retrieved albedo will be carried out by comparing it with MODIS albedo products and in-situ albedo measurements. The INSAT-3D Incremental ATBD (MMDRPS), November 2018 43 preliminary study has provided encouraging results; however, a detailed analysis is underway involving more theoretical simulations and removing the errors due to erroneous cloud mask. Moreover,