in detail in Smith et. al. (1970). Regression coefficients are required to correlate observed radiances with vertical profile vectors. This derivation of regression coefficients in turn requires generation of training dataset from radiosonde profiles of temperature, humidity, ozone profiles, surface pressure representing the entire variations. Training dataset generated by CIMSS/SSEC, University of Wisconsin is used, which contains more then 12000 profiles. To include more local data into the training dataset and to create a testing dataset, radiosonde data over INSAT-3D viewing region is collocated and quality checked. These are total ~40,000 profiles spanning over 2 years, twice daily observations. Surface emissivities at each sounder channel wavelength for all profiles are assigned from the global emissivity dataset generated by Seeman et al. (2006) at CIMSS. Sounder radiances/brightness temperature will be simulated using fast radiative transfer model (PLOD) and suitable instrument noise will be added to the simulated radiances. Regression coefficients between atmospheric profile vector, X (T-, q-, O3-profiles, Ts), with Sounder observations, Y (brightness temperatures) are computed at different zenith angles from simulated training dataset using: RC = dX.dYT.(dY.dYT)-1 --------- (10) Where, dX = X - Xmean, and dY = Y - Ymean These regression coefficients can be used to retrieve the atmospheric profiles, X, using the following relation: X = Xmean + RC.(dYobs)T ---------- (11) Emissivity and surface pressure are also used as predictors along with the brightness temperature observations to improve the retrieval accuracy. Quadratic term of all brightness temperatures is used as predictors to account for the moisture non-linearity in the sounder observations. Separate regression coefficients are generated for land and Temperature, Moisture Profile and Total Ozone from Sounder INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 258 sea for day and night conditions. Regression coefficients are generated for different local zenith angles from nadir to 62.5. If any one or