However, if the domain of this regional model is smaller than the area of AMV retrieval, either IMD may be requested to increase the domain of its operational model, or a lower-quality solution based on the output of coarser-resolution GCM will be generated over the regions not covered by IMD’s regional model. c. Whether RT model to be used in real-time for height assignment To use RT model in real-time height-assignment application is generally required to find the optimum solution. However, it is computationally expensive and may increase the AMV turn- around time very significantly. Efforts are currently underway to develop an empirical version of RT model that can be used for simulation of IR and water-vapor channel radiances for a variety of cloud heights. The inverse of this empirical model will then be used in real-time applications. d. Comparison of maximum-correlation and minimum-difference methods for tracking of cloud-tracers. The comparison have been made for a large number of image samples and it was found that the efficiencies of minimum-difference method (MDM) and maximum cross correlation (MCC) methods are comparable, while the MDM method is significantly faster than MCC. References Deb, S.K., C.M. Kishtawal, and P.K. Pal, 2010. Impact of Kalpana-1 derived water vapourwinds on Indian Ocean Tropical cyclones forecast. Mon. Weather Rev. 138 (3), 987–1003. http://dx.doi.org/10.1175/2009MWR3041.1. Deb, S. K., C.M.Kishtawal, Prashant Kumar, A.S. Kiran Kumar, P. K. Pal, Nitesh Kaushik, and Ghansham Sangar, 2016. Atmospheric Motion Vectors from INSAT-3D: Initial quality assessment and its impact on track forecast of cyclonic storm NANAUK. Atmos. Res. 169, 1-16 Horvath, A., and R. Davies, 2001. Feasibility and error analysis of cloud motion wind extraction from near-simultaneous multi-angle MISR measurement. J Atmos Ocean Technol. 18(4):591–608. Kaur, Inderpreet, Prashant Kumar, S.K.Deb, C.M. Kishtawal, P.K.Pal, and Raj Kumar, 2015. Impact of Kalpana-1 retrieved Atmospheric Motion