reflectance of snow is an important parameter for various climatological and hydrological applications. In addition, extent of snow cover can also be used as an input for avalanche investigation. Snow was first observed in April 1960 by TIROS-1 satellite in eastern Canada. Since then, the potential for operational satellite-based mapping has been enhanced by the development of higher temporal-frequency and satellite sensors with higher spatial resolution. In addition, satellite sensors with better radiometric resolutions, such as MODIS and AWiFS have been used successfully for snow mapping (Hall et al. 2002; Kulkarni et. al. 2006). This is possibly due to distinct spectral reflectance characteristics of snow in visible and short wave infrared region. Information generated from satellite observations has been extensively used for snowmelt runoff modeling (Kulkarni et al. 2002b). Remote sensing technique has been extensively used for snow cover monitoring in the Himalayan region with the help of numerous satellite sensors (Kulkarni and Rathore. 2003). Various analysis techniques as visual, hybrid (Visual and supervised classification) have been used to estimate areal extent of snow cover (Kulkarni and Rathore, 2003). However, major difficulty in snow cover monitoring using automated technique in the Himalayan region is mountain shadow and confusing signature of snow and cloud in the visible and near infrared region. Because of above-mentioned reasons, combination of digital and visual interpretation technique is needed to monitor snow cover. This makes snow cover mapping cumbersome and time consuming. To over come this problem normalized difference snow index method is developed and discussed in this paper. In optical region snow reflectance is higher as compared to other land features as grass, rock and water. However, in SWIR region snow reflectance is lower than rock and vegetation (Kulkarni et. al. 2002c). Therefore, snow on satellite images appears white in visible and black in SWIR