1999) and interacting with clouds (Platnick and Twomey 1994; Kaufman et al. 2002). Aerosol information is also critical for atmospheric correction algorithms for multi- spectral satellite sensors and military operations. The climate effects of atmospheric aerosols may be comparable to carbon dioxide greenhouse effects, but with opposite signs and larger uncertainty (Hansen and Lacis, 1990). Aerosols have a significant impact on human life beyond the climate element. When in the lower troposphere aerosols cause poor air quality, reduction of visibility, and public health hazards. Satellite remote sensing provides a means to derive aerosol distribution at global and regional scales. This Algorithm Theoretical Basis Document (ATBD) describes the algorithm used to retrieve the Aerosol Optical Depth (AOD) for the OCM-2 instrument onboard OceanSat-2 a polar-orbiting platform. The output product description is summarized in Table 1. Specifically, this document identifies the sources of input data, both OCM-2 data and non- OCM-2 data, required for retrieval; provides the physical theory and mathematical background underlying the use of this information in the retrievals; includes implementation details; describes assumptions and limitations of the proposed approach. Table 1. Summary of the OCM-2 aerosol optical depth (AOD) product Parameter Name Units Horizontal Cell Size Comments Aerosol Optical depth @ 550nm Dimensionless 700 meters over land. Retrieved for all pixels except cloudy and saturated pixels. Fine Mode Fraction Dimensionless 700 meters over land. Retrieved for all pixels except cloudy and saturated pixels. 2.2 Objectives The primary objective of this algorithm is to calculate the aerosol optical depth, proportional to the total aerosol loading of the ambient aerosol, over land for the Indian region using OCM-2 data. The 8 secondary objective is to derive fine-mode fraction which is a proxy information about the particle size distribution and can be associated with anthropogenic sources of aerosols. The overall objectives of