algorithm. Thus, due to the impracticality of implementation of existing AOD retrieval methods to ISRO’s operational satellites’ data, routine accurate AOD retrieval could not be done. However, extremely poor air quality over Indian landmass, especially the urban centers, and the high priority requirement from Environment Ministries, for high resolution (sub kilometres) aerosol estimations to generate ground-level PM2.5/PM10 maps, using existing Indian satellite sensor’s data, an urgent need was there to develop techniques for retrieving reliable and accurate aerosol information from the existing Indian satellite sensors. Recent research work at Space Applications Center, ISRO, provides a unique solution to this. The research has led to the development of a Novel Technique, which can retrieve AOD from Ocean Colour Monitor (OCM) data onboard IRS OceanSat-2 satellite, which was launched in 2009 and is still in-service. This Algorithm Theoretical Basis Document briefly describes this aerosol algorithm and the aerosol product of which AOD@550 nm beta version is currently operational at VEDAS/SAC/ISRO air quality portal (https://vedas.sac.gov.in/vstatic/AQ/index.html). Figure 1. Spectral responses functions of Ocean Colour Monitor bands. 4.2 Instrument Characteristics The OceanSat-2 was launched in 2009 and was placed in a near-circular sun-synchronous orbit, at an altitude of 720 Km, with an equatorial crossing time of around 1200 hrs. Ocean Colour Monitor is a VNIR sensor on-board OceanSat-2, which acquires top of the atmosphere radiance in 8 narrow spectral channels centered at wavelengths, 412, 443, 490, 510, 550, 620, 740, and 865 nm with high radiometric accuracy. Since 2010 (i.e., for the last 11 years) OCM-2 is continuously providing data over the ocean as well as on land and is still in service. Since OCM-2 is particularly designed for ocean colour studies, the ocean observation is planned at the local time of equator crossing 11 time of 1200 hours noon, the camera can be tilted