from satellite remotes sensing methods (Gairola et al. 2007). E-P determines surface salinity of the ocean, which helps determine the stability of the water column. Salinity and temperature determine the density of ocean water, and density influences the circulation. Precipitation also affects the height of the ocean surface indirectly via salinity and density. The global increase in oceanic evaporation (E) is determined by the increase in surface heating and this controls the global increase in precipitation (P). With the global warming scenario, it has been argued that increased moisture content of the atmosphere favours stronger rainfall events, thus increasing risk of flooding over land and more fresh water fluxes (E-P) over the oceans. It changes the buoyancy of the sea waters and also acts as a forcing function in OGCM. Megha-Tropiques ATBD Ver 3.0 8 The development of rainfall estimation techniques based on remote sensing measurements from space has registered tremendous progress and realistic achievements over the last three decades. Like any other fields of endeavor, however, there are limitations too and newer and better measurement and estimation techniques are developed on a continuous basis. The ability of space based measurements to provide a 2-D distribution of rainfall over large areas with sufficiently frequent sampling in time, especially over data sparse oceanic regions, facilitates us with a tremendously powerful tool to detect, closely monitor monsoon system and study the genesis and evolution of the furious tropical cyclonic storm. Most tropical rainfall that has an impact over more than world's two-third population occurs as a result of convective processes. Understanding rainfall and its variability will contribute significantly to making reliable monsoon forecast. In addition, the knowledge of precipitation as one of the initial state of the atmosphere is necessary in weather prediction for physical initialization of numerical models. For years the