basic idea is to discard particles with low weights and retain multiple copies of particles with relatively higher weights, keeping the total number of particles the same. Selection of particles based on its weight is carried out using Sequential Importance Resampling (SIR) method. In this method, weights are first normalised ([0 1)] and then added to form a cumulative distribution. A random generator is used to generate random numbers and the weights close to this random number is selected from cumulative distribution and this process is repeated multiple times. Probability is very high for choosing particles with higher weight from a cumulative distribution. Thus, the weights for each particle are computed, and the particles are resampled, assigning them equal weights (1/N). N is the total number of ensembles generated. This weight calculation and resampling process is how observations are assimilated into the model. Particle degeneracy is a common problem associated with ensemble-based techniques, where a very few particles carry significant weights, while the majority have negligible weights. This leads to a loss of diversity in the particle population and inaccurate representation of the posterior distribution. SIR addresses this issue by retaining the multiple copies of stronger particles and ensuring that the particle population remains diverse during the resampling process, where particles are randomly selected based on their weights. Assigning equal weights to all selected particles during resampling ensures that each particle has an equal chance of being selected. This prevents the loss of valuable information and improves the sampling efficiency and robustness of the sampling variability. The flowchart of generating analysed chlorophyll fields for the global ocean is given in Figure 4. Figure 4 : Flow chart of the methodology for generating analysed chlorophyll fields 3.5. Operational Implementation: The implementation steps that are to be followed are mentioned below and