Snow cover INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 105 evaluated. This will be initially established using Spectral Reflectance library of Space Applications Centre and then sensitivity analysis of INSAT-3D data. 5) It runs automatically, without human intervention. It is straightforward, computationally frugal, and thus easy for the user to understand exactly how the product is generated. Snow has strong visible reflectance and strong short-wave IR absorbing characteristics. The Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) is an effective way to distinguish snow from many other surface features. Both sunlit and some shadowed snow is mapped effectively. A similar index for vegetation, the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) has been proven to be effective for monitoring global vegetation conditions throughout the year (Tucker, 1979 and 1986). Additionally, some snow/cloud discrimination is accomplished using the NDSI. Other promising techniques, such as traditional supervised multispectral classifications, spectral-mixture modeling, or neural-network analyses have not yet been shown to be usable for automatic application at the mountainous region. They are also computationally intensive. Training or the interaction of an interpreter is required for successful application of techniques such as neural-network analysis. These techniques may progress to regional applications and possibly even global application in future years. 6.4.1.1 Theoretical Background 6.4.1.1.1 Snow cover map The snow-cover mapping algorithm will be designed to identify snow in each 1 km pixel. A regional, daily snow product will be produced. A 10-day composite snow cover product will be generated by compositing successive days of snow cover products. This will yield maximum snow extent for the 10 day period. If a pixel were snow covered on any orbit during that period, then that pixel will be mapped as snow covered even if it were snow-free on all of the other orbits during the 10-day period. Other coverage and persistence statistics will also be