a) Visible band threshold test The reflectance threshold test using visible band of INSTA-3D/3DR. Pixels with visible channel reflectance greater than 0.3 over land and greater than 0.10 over ocean are considered cloudy. b) TIR Brightness temperature threshold test Aerosol Pixels with brightness temperature in TIR1 channel less than 273 are considered cloudy. c) Standard deviation threshold test Land: 3X3 pixel window is considered for calculating standard deviation in visible and TIR1 channel. If standard deviation of visible channel and TIR1 BT is greater than 0.03 and 4, respectively than all pixels in 3X3 window are masked. Ocean: 3X3 pixel window is considered for calculating standard deviation in visible and TIR1 channel. If standard deviation of visible channel and TIR1 BT is greater than 0.015 and 1, respectively, than all pixels in 3X3 window are masked. Surface Reflectance Retrieval Estimating the surface contribution to the TOA INSAT-3D/3DR Imager visible reflectance is difficult since observations will have atmospheric contamination. For instance, a visible observation from INSAT-3DR Imager on a cloudless day with low aerosol burden will still have gaseous absorption (primarily, ozone and water vapour); Rayleigh scattering; and residual aerosol extinction. This atmospheric component to the TOA reflectance needs to be removed to retrieve the surface reflectance. While studies have shown it is possible to estimate the surface component from observations in the near infrared (e.g. 2.1 µm) where aerosol and Rayleigh scattering are very low (Kaufman et al. 2002), the INSAT-3D/3DR imager lacks an observation at this wavelength. Therefore, a compositing method will be used to estimate the surface reflectance. The INSAT-3D/3DR visible channel radiance is converted to top of the atmosphere (TOA) reflectance. TOA reflectance is then corrected for ozone and water Vapor absorption. Water vapour and ozone concentration are used from NCEP model data. Further Rayleigh reflectance is