retrieval. A near-IR band is used to identify dark, vegetated pixels, then the surface reflectance in the visible bands is calculated from the observed reflectance in the near-IR band. The optical thickness is initially calculated assuming a continental aerosol model. The suspended matter information is used to choose a better aerosol model and more accurate values of optical thickness (Kaufmann et al. 1997). In spite of advances in aerosol remote sensing over land, most retrievals are limited to once or twice per day, as by the morning and afternoon passes of the orbiting polar satellites. Aerosols, however, show diurnal variations that would be missed by such sparse observations. While studies of aerosol optical depth from Sun photometers show little systematic trends (Smirnov et al. 2002), surface observations of scattering show significant diurnal patterns. It is required to understand aerosol plume movement to track and forecast plume movement in the interest of human health. Therefore, it is important to monitor the temporal aspects of aerosol. The INSAT-3D imager data from geostationary platform has the potential to provide aerosol observations over land and ocean with multiple observations per day. Many studies have demonstrated the potential of Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite (GOES) series of imager sensors to provide quantitative estimates of aerosol optical depth. Their sensitivity studies, however, concluded that retrievals depend on aerosol optical property assumptions and surface reflectance. Studies using geostationary satellites (e.g. GOES-8) and larger validation networks (e.g. Aerosol Robotic Network— AERONET) supported those initial findings. Specifically, Zhang et al. (2001) and Knapp et al. (2002) showed that aerosol monitoring from GOES is possible for South America. However, this region has optimal retrieval conditions: surface cover with little variability (i.e. rainforest) and large aerosol optical depths (from biomass burning). Recent study by Knapp et al. (2005) has shown operational potential