of data dissemination to Indian community and CNES to the rest of the scientific community. The NRT and offline data are provided through different sources and means as discussed below. Note that the telemetry acquisition strategy, designed to minimize the risk of science data loss, sometimes results in files containing data which overlaps in time. The NRT ground processing does not remove these overlaps, so it is possible to encounter two or more OGDR products which have overlapping start and stop sensing times. CNES-EUMETSAT-ISRO centers are disseminating SARAL/AltiKa products according to the interagency agreement. • CNES via AVISO data service: http://www.aviso.oceanobs.com “Archiving, Validation and Interpretation of Satellite Oceanographic data” is the French multi- satellite data distribution center dedicated to space oceanography, developed by CNES. AVISO distributes and archives SARAL/AltiKa delayed-time data (IGDR, GDR). • EUMETSAT: http://www.eumetsat.int EUMETSAT is the European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites. Its role is to deliver weather and climate-related satellite data, images and products– 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. SARAL/AltiKa Products Handbook Iss :1.2 - date : December 12, 2011 33 EUMETSAT distributes operational data (OGDR). • ISRO: http://www.isro.org/ The objective of ISRO is to develop space technology and its application to various national tasks. ISRO distributes (at national level) operational data (OGDR) and archives delayed-time data (GDR). 2.7.1. Access to NRT data The OGDR and OGDR-SSHA files are produced at ISRO and EUMETSAT. Telemetry data downlinked to CNES’s polar X-band ground stations at Kiruna (Sweden) and Inuvik (Canada) are used to produce OGDR products. In near real time, ISRO disseminates the complete set of OGDR files via ftp and EUMETSAT disseminates the complete set of OGDR files on EUMETCast. The complete set of OGDR files consists of OGDR and OGDR-SSHA. Details on data dissemination services from ISRO and EUMETSAT agencies