residual standard error around 0.02 (Liang et al., 2003). Figure 2. Algorithm flowchart for direct-retrieval of the broadband albedo from the INSAT-3D Imager data by generating narrow to broadband conversion coefficients For the retrieval of broadband albedo in the present study, the basic procedure consists of three major steps as illustrated in figure 2. The first step is to conduct extensive radiative transfer simulations using the 6SV code, the second step is to obtain the narrow to broad band conversion coefficients by linking the simulated TOA reflectance with surface broadband reflectance using linear regression analysis and third step is to apply the narrow to broadband conversion coefficients on the INSAT-3D Imager data to obtain the broadband albedo. Various surface reflectance spectra of different cover types with different atmosphe ric conditions have been incorporated into the radiative transfer simulations. In this study, attempt has been made to estimate land surface broadband albedos using TOA directional reflectance, instead of TOA spectral albedos. This improvement has in fact greatly simplified this method, since calculating TOA spectral albedo requires TOA angular modelling that might introduce large errors. 3.4.1. Radiative transfer simulations For a given atmospheric and surface condition, we need to compute the directional reflectance at the top of the atmosphere. Assuming the surface is Lambertian, the upw elling INSAT-3D Incremental ATBD (MMDRPS), November 2018 39 radiance at the TOA can be computed by radiative transfer simulations through 6SV (Second Simulation of a Satellite Signal in the Solar Spectrum – Vector version) code (Vermote et al., 1997). It is critical to use the representative surface reflectance spectra in data simulations. Different surface reflectance spectra covering the spectral range 0.4–2.5 um representing vegetation, sand, water, snow surfaces were interpolated in the study. The simulation outputs include total shortwave albedo and spectral albedos that are calculated