radars and the relative lack of rainfall measurements over the oceans have significantly limited the use of global as well local data. Precipitation is one of the most variable quantities in space and time. Precipitation also has a direct impact on human life that other atmospheric phenomena seldom have: an example is represented by heavy rain events and flash floods (Barrett and Michell, 1991). Geostationary weather satellite visible (VIS) and infrared (IR) imagers provide the rapid temporal update cycle needed to capture the growth and decay of precipitating clouds. Microwaves provide the interaction of radiation with hydrometeors but with coarser resolution and limited swath widths of satellites with in Sea surface temperature INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 45 tropical orbit such as the Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission (TRMM) (Kummerow et al., 1998) and of sensors in polar orbits like the Special Sensor Microwave Imager (SSM/I) series. 4.2.1 Overview Operational applications, require quantitative rainfall determination from a variety of precipitating systems, which differ both dynamically and microphysically. This fact prompts for non-unique solutions based on the physics of precipitation formation processes. Barrett and Martin (1981) and Kidder and Vonder Haar (1995) give excellent reviews of the available methods. Petty (1995) has examined the status of satellite rainfall estimation over land. Recent reviews Levizzani et al. (2001) has covered results and future perspectives from the geostationary orbit. The perspective varies widely from the relatively simple methods used for climatic-scale analyses (e.g. Arkin and Ardanuy, 1989; Arkin and Janowiak, 1991) to the more elaborate instantaneous rainrate estimations for research and nowcasting (Ba and Gruber, 2001; Turk et al., 2000; Vicente et al., 1998). Recent technological developments of MW instruments on board polar orbiters have been dramatic but the use of VIS, IR and water vapor (WV) channels of geostationary satellites is still indispensable.