Lambertian reflecting surface, as snow metamorphoses the specular component characteristic of forward scattering increases. This means, reflectance of snow will change depending upon view and illumination geometry. This can be described by Bidirectional reflectance distribution Function (BRDF) (George Joseph, 2005). 7.2.2 Objective The purpose of the snow-depth estimation algorithm is to generate Himalayan snow depth product from INSAT 3D data. The algorithm based on correlation between depth of the snow pack and satellite derived sub pixel fractional snow cover (Romanov and Tarpley, 2004). However, this relationship was developed for non-forested, open prairie (plain terrain) region of North America. Therefore, this algorithm needs further development for application in mountainous Himalayan Terrain. This involves reflectance correction using local illumination angle, diffuse radiation from sidewalls and Bidirectional reflectance distribution Function (BRDF). BRDF is necessary as snow reflectance in anisotropic with aging. 7.3 Inputs 7.3.1 Image and preprocessing data (Dynamic) Parameter Resolution Quantization Accuracy Source Radiometric and geometric corrected gray count values Visible (0.52-0.75 m) & SWIR (1.55-1.70 m) pixel 10 bit -- Derived from raw data by DP (data processing) Radiometric and geometric corrected gray count values of TIR-1 channel (10.2-11.2 m) pixel 10 bit - Derived from raw data by DP Gray value to brightness temperature conversion table - - 0.3 K Derived by DP Geolocation file Pixel - 1 pixel Derived by DP Snow depth INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 119 7.3.2 Other Auxillary data and Model Inputs Source Product Role in algorithm Purpose Field Data Snow Depth Development of Snow fraction and snow depth based approach Developing and validating. Sensor parameter Sun-solar geometry Deriving snow fraction map Generation of snow cover map Topographic map Digital Elevation Model Terrain parameters Computation of Slope and aspect of terrain. AOD, O3, and other gases Transmittance coefficient Atmospheric correction To minimize atmospheric contribution AWiFS