its three-dimensional effects on cloud transmission especially on diffuse component were not considered in the present model. The third layer corresponds to clear-sky atmosphere below cloud. Molecular scattering (air below cloud) was only considered in layer 3. The precipitable water was assumed entirely distributed below cloud and contributed to gaseous transmission along with other gases. In order to compute Rayleigh scattering above cloud, the height of cloud-top was approximated from cloud-top temperature, maximum clear-sky planetary temperature within previous 30 days, ground elevation and dry-adiabatic lapse rate up to condensation level represented through cloud-top temperature. Here also, direct, diffuse and global irradiances were computed using the principles used in the section 3.1. The irradiance coming out of first and top clear-sky layer after attenuation is considered as the incoming solar radiation flux cloud layer. The energy flux that comes out after being attenuated in cloud layer was considered as influx for third layer (clear-sky layer below cloud) which again gets attenuated to reach at the ground. The global irradiance received at the ground is considered as insolation in cloudy-sky. The transmission through cloud was computed using Kubelka-Munk theory. (16) This relates cloud-top albedo with cloud transmittance ( . The coefficients in the equation 16 vary according to different land use categories which were taken into account through typical ranges (< 0.2 for water bodies, forest; 0.21 to 0.32 for agriculture; >0.3 for desert and snow cover) of ground albedo represented by minimum ground brightness from previous thirty days. 20.4.3 Daily integration A trapezoidal integration was applied to construct daily integral from diurnal instantaneous global irradiances. The daily integral global irradiance was expressed in MJm-2. The mathematical expression for daily integration is: (17) Here represents hours in GMT. Surface insolation over land INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 347 20.4.4 Flow chart Figure