available and the derived wind solutions do not posses any ranking, the wind retrieval needs external data like model winds. Over sweet zone, measurements available from both the beams with dual look directions also having good optimal azimuth diversity are very much suitable for better wind vector retrieval. Over nadir zone, measurements available from both the beams with dual look directions but with non-optimal azimuth diversity lead to more erroneous wind vectors. Wind direction ambiguity removal processes for outer and nadir zones are different and require special efforts mentioned briefly later. 3.2 Geophysical products specifications: Given below are specifications as per the existing satellite mission, however, based on Oceansat-2 design, post-launch performance and GMF characteristics, these specifications may slightly deviate. Table 2: Geophysical product requirements: Geophysical Parameter *Range *Accuracy (rms) Wind Speed 3 – 20 m/s 20 – 30 m/s 2 m/s 10 % Wind Direction 0 – 360 Deg. 20 *At 25 km wind vector cell (NASA, 2006), Minor deviation anticipated for Oceansat-2 5 3.3 Oceansat-2 scatterometer data processing flow: Figure (2) depicts the process flow from Level 2A scatterometer data product to the Level 2B wind vector data product including flags. It consists of two primary inputs namely radar backscatter with ancillary information and the model wind forecast. The use of retrieval module with its various components and other modules are depicted. Oceansat-2 Scatterometer Level 2A Data Geophysical Model Function Rain flagging sub-module Sub-module for wind vector solutions retrieval Sub-module for wind direction ambiguity removal Sea-ice flagging Model wind forecast data (ECMWF) Level 2B wind vector product Retrieval Module Model wind data preparation module Rain Impact Model Figure 2: Process flow for various types of data products 4.0 Geophysical model functions: The magnitude of radar backscatter depends upon the sea surface roughness generated by the action of winds.