Wet Troposphere The amount of water vapor present along the path length contributes to the index of refraction of the Earth's atmosphere. Its contribution to the delay of the radio pulse, the wet tropospheric delay, can be estimated by measuring the atmospheric brightness near the water vapor line at 22.2356 GHz and providing suitable removal of the background. The SARAL/AltiKa dual frequency radiometer measures the brightness temperatures in the nadir path at 23.8 and 37.0 GHz: the water vapor signal is sensed by the 23.8 GHz channel, while the 37 GHz channel removes other atmospheric contributions (surface emission, cloud cover influence) [Keihm et al., 1995]. Measurements are combined to obtain the path delay in the satellite range measurement due to the water vapor content (see rad_wet_tropo_corr parameter). The ECMWF numerical weather prediction model provides also a value for the wet tropospheric delay. An interpolated value from this model is included in the (O)(I)GDR, as a backup to the measurement from the radiometer (see model_wet_tropo_corr parameter). This backup will prove useful when sun glint, land contamination, or anomalous sensor behavior makes the radiometer measurement of the wet tropospheric delay unusable. The ECMWF meteorological fields are interpolated to provide the model dry and wet tropospheric corrections at the time and location of the altimeter measurement (see model_dry_tropo_corr and model_wet_tropo_corr) and an interpolation quality flag is provided on the (O)(I)GDR to indicate the quality of this interpolation (see interp_flag_meteo). 5.6.3. Ionosphere The group velocity of the altimeter radar pulses is slowed by the presence of free electrons in the Earth’s ionospheric layer. As the Total Electronic Content (TEC) is highly variable in time (diurnal, seasonal, solar cycle variations) and in space (latitude dependent), accurate measurement of the resulting delay requires generally fine sampling coincident with the radar measurements. The ionospheric dispersion being linear,