A trapezoidal integration was applied to construct daily integral from diurnal instantaneous global irradiances. The daily integral global irradiance was expressed in MJm-2. The mathematical expression for daily integration is: (17) Here represents hours in GMT. Surface insolation over land INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 347 20.4.4 Flow chart Figure 3 20.4.5 Operational implementation Step 1: Unpacking and pre-processing First sub-program should unpack h5 (Hierarchical data format) datasets from INSAT 3D Imager, reads DEM and computes date, time, year from name of file string as well as sun-sensor zenith, azimuth angles. Brightness temperatures in IR and WV bands and VIS albedo (after removing perturbation due to molecular scattering) were also computed from look-up table (LUT) and calibration coefficients provided with h5 datasets. Step 2 : Generation of minimum ground brightness and maximum brightness temperatures for cloud-fog detection and cloud height determination This sub-program uses INSAT 3D ‘Imager’ brightness temperatures and VIS band albedo or reflectance of a lead of previous 30 days. The maximum temperatures and minimum albedo were picked up for each pixel at a given acquisition. Both are used as bi-spectral thresholds to detect cloud. In addition, a cloudiness index is generated through normalization of VIS band TOA reflectance, its upper and lower limts. Both dynamic bispectral thresholds and threshold of cloudiness index ( > 0.15) are used to for cloud and fog detection and masking during daylight hours. Temperature composites and current acquisition temperature will be used to determine cloud height from dry-adiabatic-lapse- rate (DALR) Step 4 : Interpolation of climatic gridded AOD550, ozone and resampling Another sub-program should use eight-day gridded (1° x 1°) climatological aerosol optical depth (AOD) and ozone to extract from global products for the latitude and Surface insolation over land INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 348 longitude bounds of south-east Asia corresponding