has three components as mentioned in expression above and also in Fig. 1. First, the emitted radiation by the atmosphere directly reaching to the radiometer which mainly depends upon the absorption by atmospheric constituents like dominantly absorbing gases (oxygen and water Megha-Tropiques ATBD Ver 3.0 34 vapor) and the hydrometeors (water drops of cloud and rain). Second, the atmospheric radiation reaching the earth surface and gets reflected by it and reaches to the radiometer after having attenuated by the intervening atmosphere. Third, the radiation emitted by the earth surface after attenuated by the intervening atmosphere reaches to the radiometer. Thus, the total radiation received by the radiometer is affected by both atmosphere and earth surface. We propose to use the standard stat-of-art radiative transfer models from Florida State University (Liu, 1998). In Liu’s model the absorption models by Rosenkranz (1998) for oxygen and Rosenkranz (1993) for water vapour are used. Absorption due to non precipitating cloud is calculated using the model given by (Paris, 1971). The clouds will be simulated as given in the next paragraph. Liu’s model (1992) utilizes Guillon et al. (1998) for calculating the ocean surface emissivity. The brightness temperatures thus simulated from the known atmospheric and surface geophysical variables are used to establish suitable statistical or physiostatistical relationships between them and atmpsheric parameters for retrieval purpose. Masking the rainy area A radiative transfer based method for rain identification over global oceans is developed prior the launch of the Megha-Tropiques satellite to avoid the retrieval of other GPs over oceans. The scheme is based on developing step-by-step procedures for transforming MADRAS based scattering index (SI) to equivalent SSM/I based scattering index with high accuracy (Varma et al., 2011). Ferraro and Mark (1995) and Ferraro et al. (1996) provided a rain identification and retrieval algorithm over land and