types of global data sets are also specified along with its utilization procedures. For deriving wind vector solutions, a new and efficient algorithm has been developed which is as good as Maximum Likelihood Estimator (MLE) algorithm being used operationally for the earlier and ongoing global scatterometer missions. The algorithm developed for directional ambiguity removal is based on median filter and it operates in two stages considering observational data at different spatial coverage in order to tackle the localized ambiguities also. The rain flagging algorithm makes use of the cost function developed for wind solution extraction which gets modified under rain free and rainy situations. The sea-ice flagging approach is adopted from the literature which is used for sea-ice detection from Quikscat data. The present ATBD describes the procedures for developing GMF specific to Oceansat-2 scatterometer by using simultaneous observations of radar backscatter from Oceansat-2 and reanalysis wind vector fields from AGCM (atmospheric general circulation model - ECMWF) for rain free conditions using rain information from TRMM or DMSP-SSM/I. Like-wise, procedures for rain impact model development are also described in ATBD based on atmospheric attenuation and rain fall to be available from TRMM-PR along with Oceansat-2 scatterometer radar backscatter and model analysis wind data. Analysis of limited data of Quikscat scatterometer, sensitivity studies related to wind vector retrieval using both the algorithms (MLE and in-house), rain and sea ice flagging, assumptions made in algorithms and various procedures, and overall limitations of retrievals are also presented. 1 1.0 Introduction: The ocean surface wind is the main driving force for ocean circulation and for generation of surface waves and currents. It plays an important role in air-sea interaction, upwelling, biogeochemical transport in the ocean and several other processes. The ocean surface wind vector is an essential input parameter for prediction models of ocean