is numerically integrated with DISORT (DIScreet Ordinate Radiative Transfer, Stamnes et al, 1988). The discrete ordinate method provides a numerically stable algorithm to solve the equations of plane-parallel radiative transfer in a vertically inhomogeneous atmosphere. The intensity of both scattered and thermally emitted radiation can be computed at different heights and directions. SBDART is configured to allow up to 65 atmospheric layers and 40 radiation streams (40 zenith angles and 40 azimuthal modes). Surface Models: The ground surface cover is an important determinant of the overall radiation environment. In SBDART six basic surface types -- ocean water, lake water, vegetation, snow and sand are used to parameterize the spectral reflectivity of the surface. The spectral reflectivity of a large variety of surface conditions is well approximated by combinations of these basic types. For example, the fractions of vegetation, water and sand can be adjusted to generate a new spectral reflectivity representing new/old growth, or deciduous vs. evergreen forest. Combining a small fraction of the spectral reflectivity of water with that of sand yields an overall spectral dependence close to wet soil. 3.4.1.2 RTM simulated OLR and INSAT-3D radiances To develop the empirical relationship between narrow band radiances and OLR a large database of spectral radiance fields was built using SBDART model. The radiative transfer computations were performed at 19400 wavelengths covering the thermal region 4–100 m for 4704 realistic conditions of the Earth–atmosphere system. For each element in the database, the main inputs for the radiative transfer computations were: the atmospheric profiles of temperature, pressure, water vapor, and ozone concentrations. These profiles are extracted from the TIGR-3 database, which is a representative set of 2311 profiles selected among a larger set of worldwide soundings. Additional 41 diverse profiles of temperature, water vapor and ozone from ECMWF were also taken. The