Spectra: SBDART has options for three extraterrestrial solar spectrum models: LOWTRAN-7 solar spectrum (Shettle and Fenn, 1975), solar models used in 5s or MODTRAN-3 solar spectrum. Standard Atmospheric Models: SBDART has six standard atmospheric profiles from the 5s atmospheric radiation code to model the following typical climatic conditions: tropical, mid-latitude summer, mid-latitude winter, subarctic summer, subarctic winter and US62. These model atmospheres (McClatchey et al, 1971) have been widely used in the atmospheric research community and provide standard vertical profiles of pressure, temperature, water vapor and ozone density. Optionally users can specify their own model Outgoing longwave radiation INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 35 atmosphere, e.g, a radiosonde profile. The concentration of trace gases such as CO2 or CH4 are assumed to make up a fixed fraction (which may be specified by the user) of the total particle density. Standard Aerosol Models: SBDART can compute the radiative effects of several common boundary layer and upper atmosphere aerosol types. In the boundary layer, the user can select from rural, urban, or maritime aerosols. The total vertical optical depth of boundary layer aerosols is derived from user specified horizontal meteorological visibility at 0.55 µm and an internal vertical distribution model. In the upper atmosphere up to 5 aerosol layers can be specified, with radiative characteristics that model fresh and aged volcanic, meteoric and the climatological tropospheric background aerosols. The aerosol models included in SBDART were derived from those provided in the 5s and LOWTRAN7. Radiative Transfer Equation Solver: The radiative transfer equation is numerically integrated with DISORT (DIScreet Ordinate Radiative Transfer, Stamnes et al, 1988). The discrete ordinate method provides a numerically stable algorithm to solve the equations of plane-parallel radiative transfer in a vertically inhomogeneous atmosphere. The intensity of both scattered and thermally emitted radiation can be computed at different heights