sounder channel. The spatial resolution of VIS and SWIR band is 1 km x 1 km and 4 km x 4 km for MIR, WV and two thermal IR bands. The introduction of INSAT Meteorological Data Processing System (IMDPS) provides both ‘full-globe’ and ‘sector’ data products in all the bands at half-an-hour interval at 4 km spatial resolution in an automated mode. So, there are maximum 48 acquisitions on a given day. Raw data after reception at each acquisition were corrected for servo, line-loss, radiometry, stagger and oversampling removal using the INSAT 3D data products scheduler. This results into automated generation of co-registered data in each band at Transverse Mercator (TM) projection. The dimension of each band at each acquisition is 676 rows x 721 columns for Asia Mercator sector product. 19.2.3.2 Operational insolation product A spectrally integrated clear-sky and three-layer cloudy-sky models were developed to determine integrated atmospheric transmittances and instantaneous insolation. Half-an- hourly observations from an Indian geostationary satellite sensor, INSAT 3D, were used to provide minimum ground brightness (surrogate of surface albedo) from previous 30 days, cloud top albedo, brightness temperatures, atmospheric water vapour as inputs to these models in addition to global eight-day aerosol optical depth at 550 nm and columnar ozone. A trapezoidal scheme was implemented to obtain daily insolation (in MJm-2) from half-an-hour instantaneous insolation (Wm-2) throughout the day for all-sky conditions (clear + cloudy). The whole algorithm (Bhattacharya et al, 2010 & 2012b) will be operationalized and daily insolation product can available at 4 km spatial resolution with Transverse Mercator projection routinely from MOSDAC site (http://www.mosdac.gov.in). Potential evapotranspiration INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 312 19.2.3.3 Operational product of WRF short-range forecast Weather Research and Forecasting (WRF; Skamarock et al., 2008) Model version 3.1 is used for All India Short range weather forecast. WRF