atmosphere, and at the surface. Radiation budget and its different components also listed in essential climatic variables of the emerging Global Framework for Climate Services (BojinSki et al., 2014). Net surface radiation (Rn) is a key parameter for energy and mass exchange between land and atmosphere and also play a vital role in many biological processes (Anderson et al. 2007). Radiative energy is the driving force for land surface meteorological and micrometeorological processes, such as sensible and latent heat (evapotranspiration) transfer. The surface radiation balance is one of the major factors that determine the surface temperature of the vegetation canopy and the underlying soil substrate. Thus, accurate estimates of Rn are essential for understanding the land surface energy distribution, the formation and transformation of air masses, snow melting calculations (Male and Granger, 1981), modeling crop transpiration and evapotranspiration, and addressing water resource management (Bisht and Bras, 2011). Rn (coupled with other energy balance component such as ground heat flux) serves as a key driving force for the evapotranspiration (ET). Estimation of Rn is necessary because it is a key input for land surface process and hydrological models, and are also used routinely to calculate evapotranspiration (Monteith, 1965; Kustas & Norman,1997), which is a critical component of agricultural, hydrological, and ecological research. Over the years, various ET and land surface models have been developed that use remote sensing and ancillary surface and ground-based observations (Bastiaanssen et al., 1998). All ET models require estimates of Rn at spatial scale. Mallick et al (2009) and Westerhoff (2015) were observed sensitivity of Rn from 10 to 40% for ET over different agro-ecosystems. INSAT-3D Incremental ATBD (MMDRPS), November 2018 65 5.2.1. Overview and background Rn is the difference between the incoming and outgoing shortwave and longwave radiation fluxes at the surface. Mathematically described as: nl