1980: An algorithm for retrieval of ocean's surface and atmospheric parameters from the observations of the Scanning Multichannel Microwave Radiometer. Radio Science, 15, 525-544. Megha-Tropiques ATBD Ver 3.0 28 3.0 Retrieval of Geophysical Parameters over oceans from MADRAS Megha-Tropiques ATBD Ver 3.0 29 3. Retrieval of Ocean Surface Geophysical Parameters over oceans from MADRAS 3.1 Algorithm configuration information 3.1.1 Algorithm Name: Retrieval of Ocean Surface Geophysical Parameters over oceans from MADRAS 3.1.2 Algorithm Identifier: ISRO_MT_GPRET_A001 3.1.3 Algorithm Specifications: Version Prepared by Description 3.0 Atul K. Varma, R.M. Gairola and B.S. Gohil Other Parameters from MT 3.2 Introduction: With the advent of well-calibrated satellite microwave radiometers, it is now possible to obtain long time series of geophysical parameters that are important for studying various atmospheric and oceanic processes. In order to strengthen the observation base to provide impetus to the studies concerning tropical processes, India and France have jointly proposed the Megha-Tropiques (MT) mission. In addition to a radiation budget instrument (SCAnner for RAdiative Budget: SCRAB), an atmospheric sounding instrument (SAPHIR), and a GPS receiver for occultation based profile measurements, the MT mission will also be carrying a microwave radiometer that designed specifically to measure rainfall and cloud/sea ice, and also the cloud liquid water, wind speed and water vapor over the global oceans. This radiometer is referred as MADRAS (Measurement and Detection of rain and Atmospheric Systems). Microwave remote sensing program in ISRO started with the launch of its first microwave radiometer SAMIR-I onboard Bhaskara-I satellite in 1979 followed by similar payload SAMIR-II launched onboard Bhaskara-2 satellite in 1981. After a gap of nearly two decades, India launched microwave radiometer MSMR onboard Oceansat-1 (IRS-P4) satellite in May 1999. The MSMR provided the measured the measurements of radiances at 6.6, 10, 19 and 22 GHz channels. Gohil (1999) and Gohil et