correction to each channel, few checks are applied to classify the pixel as clear/cloudy. During daytime very high difference in channel 8 and 18 brightness temperature indicates presence of clouds. Thresholds for differences in different channels brightness temperature are to be determined by RT simulations. Temperature, Moisture Profile and Total Ozone from Sounder INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 257  Sounder channel brightness temperatures are simulated for each pixel using numerical model forecast profiles. If difference between simulated and observed sounder brightness temperature for cloud sensitive channels (3, 4, 5, 8, 13, 14, 15) is large (threshold decided by the forward model error and forecast error), then this pixel is classified as cloudy. If there are at least 9 clear pixels in the field-of-regard (FOR) comprised of 5 x 5 pixels (or 4 clear pixels in the FOR comprised of 3 x 3 pixels), then the average of all pixels brightness temperatures for this FOR is used for clear-sky retrieval. This averaging reduces the random noise of measurements over individual pixels. 16.4.2.3 Regression Retrieval: A computationally efficient method for determining temperature and moisture profiles from satellite sounding measurements uses previously determined statistical relationships between observed (or modeled) radiances and the corresponding atmospheric profiles. This method is often used to generate a first-guess for a physical retrieval algorithm, as is done in the International TOVS Processing Package (ITPP, Smith et al., 1993) and International ATOVS Processing Package (IAPP, Li et al, 2000). The statistical regression algorithm for atmospheric temperature is described in detail in Smith et. al. (1970). Regression coefficients are required to correlate observed radiances with vertical profile vectors. This derivation of regression coefficients in turn requires generation of training dataset from radiosonde profiles of temperature, humidity, ozone profiles, surface pressure representing the entire variations. Training dataset generated by CIMSS/SSEC,