background The earth and its atmosphere absorb the shortwave (SW) radiation coming from the sun and emit thermal longwave (LW) radiation to space. These two radiation streams can be represented approximately by blackbody radiation of 6000K for the solar SW and 290K for the terrestrial (LW). The balance between the incoming SW radiation and the LW determines the temperature in the atmosphere and on the earth’s surface. Outgoing longwave radiation (OLR) is the emission to space of terrestrial radiation (LW) from the top of the earth's atmosphere. OLR is strongly controlled by three main meteorological variables, namely the temperature of the earth and the atmosphere above it, the presence of water vapor in the atmosphere (which strongly absorbs infra-red radiation attenuating the terrestrial signal) and the presence of clouds (which may completely block all outgoing infra-red radiation from the surface). Thus, OLR reveal information on the temperature, humidity and cloudiness of the atmosphere. Allan et al. (1999) state that changes in humidity in the mid-troposphere (400 to 700 hPa) are most important in explaining clear-sky OLR variations. The estimates of outgoing longwave radiation, both operational and experimental have been particularly useful for variety of problems in climate sensitivity and diagnostics (e.g., Schmetz and Liu, 1988), numerical weather forecasting and climate models. The OLR has been used traditionally for radiation budget studies of the earth-atmosphere system. The top of the atmosphere radiative energy balance between net incoming solar radiation and OLR is crucial in determining the large-scale atmospheric circulation and, therefore, the synoptic evolution that is important for weather and climate prediction. OLR is a major component of the Earth’s Radiation Budget, which drives the atmospheric circulation, particularly over the tropics. This is mainly due to the fact that in the tropics, the OLR is largely modulated by cloudiness. In particular,