S. No. Product Name Spatial Resolution Temporal Resolution 1 IMG_CSBT 0.5 x 0.5 Grids 30 minutes INSAT-3D Incremental ATBD (MMDRPS), November 2018 86 7.1. Algorithm Configuration Information 7.1.1. Algorithm Name Clear Sky Brightness Temperature from INSAT-3D/3DR Imager 7.1.2. Algorithm Identifier ISRO_INSAT_IMG_CSBT 7.1.3. Algorithm Specification 7.2. Background Numerical Weather Prediction (NWP) models has become an indispensable tool for providing weather forecast. These models are immensely benefited from various in-situ and satellite observations. These observations are used for correcting model forecast trajectories, model output validation and model parameter tuning. Ingestion of various observations has now become a state- of-art and also rapidly growing to meet the challenges posed by huge amount of available observations. With the advancement and maturing of data assimilation (DA) techniques direct satellite observed radiance (or brightness temperatures) are operationally assimilated by various operational agencies. Assimilation of satellite observed radiances can be primarily subdivided into two classes: assimilation of clear sky brightness temperature and assimilation of all sky (clear and cloudy both) observation. Though, cloudy regions probably have a large impact on the accuracy of the NWP model predictions (McNally 2002; Kumar et al. 2014), but the direct assimilation of cloudy radiances is still beyond the scope of existing global NWP systems (Pavelin et al. 2008). This is due to the fact, that assimilation of cloudy radiances requires an observation operator having realistic representation of cloud effects, and a NWP model capable of accurately representing cloud at same scales (Chevallier et al. 2004). Such kind of capabilities of existing NWP model is in development phase and fast radiative transfer (RT) model have large uncertainties over cloudy regions, and have complex nonlinearity in assimilation when clouds exist (Bauer et al. 2011). Therefore, cloudy infrared (IR) radiance is still part of ongoing research and development activities and is not the part