determined with the radiative transfer simulations. This approach has been successfully used to estimate broadband albedo from MODIS data (Liang et al., 2003). Figure 1. A typical spectral distribution of the reflectances for vegetation, soil, snow over shortwave solar spectrum range shown with the RSR of two spectral bands: visible (solid line) and SWIR (dashed line) of INSAT-3D Imager instrument. 3.4. Methodology In the present study, the bidirectional reflectance distribution function (BRDF) is not taken into consideration and the surface is assumed to reflect isotropically (i.e. equally at all angles), so this albedo is referred to as the "diffuse albedo" or the "hemispherical albedo". When the land surface is assumed as lambertian (the reflectance is isotropic from different solar/view angles), the value of Bidirectional Reflectance Factor (BRF) is then equal to the albedo and the surface broadband albedo can be estimated from linear combinations of narrowband albedo (spectral directional reflectance) with different weight coefficients. This method was first proposed by Brest and Goward (1987) and was then applied to different sensors: AVHRR (Saunders, 1990; Russell et al, 1997), Landsat TM (Duguay & Ledrew, 1992; Knap et al, 1999), Meteosat (Valiente et al., 1995) and Visible Infrared Imaging Radiometer Suite (VIIRS) (Liang, 2003). Liang (2001) reviewed the above studies and provided simple conversion coefficients for estimating broadband surface INSAT-3D Incremental ATBD (MMDRPS), November 2018 38 albedo from a variety of sensors under different atmospheric and surface conditions. The validation results show that the conversion formulae are very accurate with an average residual standard error around 0.02 (Liang et al., 2003). Figure 2. Algorithm flowchart for direct-retrieval of the broadband albedo from the INSAT-3D Imager data by generating narrow to broadband conversion coefficients For the retrieval of broadband albedo in the present study, the basic procedure consists of three major steps as