photosynthetically active radiation products from multiple satellite data. Remote Sens. Environ. 152, 318–332 INSAT-3D Incremental ATBD (MMDRPS), November 2018 76 6. Daily Surface Net Shortwave Radiation over Indian Ocean using half-hourly Outgoing Longwave Radiation Data from Indian Geostationary Satellites S. No. Product Name Spatial Resolution Temporal Resolution 1 IMG_NSRO 4 km x 4 km Daily average INSAT-3D Incremental ATBD (MMDRPS), November 2018 77 6.1. Algorithm configuration information 6.1.1 Algorithm name: Daily Surface Net Shortwave Radiation over Indian Ocean using half-hourly Outgoing Longwave Radiation Data from Indian Geostationary Satellites (NSRO) 6.1.2. Algorithm Identifier: INSAT_IMG_NSRO 6.1.3. Algorithm Specification Version Date Prepared by Description 1.0 1.1 16.11.2016 08.08.2018 Rashmi Sharma and Pradeep Thapliyal Net surface shortwave radiation over Ocean valid in the warm pool region using high spatio-temporal resolution OLR observations from geostationary satellite 6.2. Introduction The shortwave radiative flux absorbed by the ocean surface plays an important role in the atmospheric and oceanic circulation through air-sea interaction particularly over the warm pool region of the Indian Ocean [Lukas, 1989]. The accurate information of surface Short Wave Radiation (SWR) would also result in significantly improved representation of the intra-annual oceanic surface processes and long term surface variability. The diurnal variations in the Sea Surface Temperature (SST) are driven by the surface solar radiation that is modulated primarily by the presence of cloudiness. The SWR data available through buoys have sparse coverage due to the large cost and maintenance involved. In the recent years there have been efforts to establish an accurate estimate of the surface shortwave radiation budget (SRB) over Tropical Ocean and to assess its impact on the climate change. The tropical oceans with SST usually greater than 28 °C, forms a major part of the largest warm pool on the earth. The variations of surface insolation over these warm pool regions