Pixel identification (NDSI approach) Snow Fraction Retrieval Snow Depth Estimation Snow reflectance data Field depth data Snow depth INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 125 7.4.2 Operational Implementation 7.4.2.1 Step 1: Conversion from gray count to BT In this step, the DN values will be converted into Radiance, Reflectance and Brightness temperature using calibration coefficient available with INSAT 3D data. The radiometrically- processed data will also be geolocated and this will provide a radiometrically and geometrically corrected product for further analysis. 7.4.2.2 Step 2: Cloud elimination This step includes the cloud screening from the INSAT 3D image. Cloud screening is based on the temperature data and will help to clear cloudy pixels, which possibly are not feasible to screen out using visible and SWIR channel based NDSI image. 7.4.2.3 Step 3: Topographic and Atmospheric correction In this step, DEM data will be used to compute the terrain parameters like slope and aspect of the terrain, which will further be used to compute the local illumination angle. Atmospheric correction algorithm will be applied to compute the atmospherically corrected radiance and reflectance values with standard procedures. This step will provide us the atmospherically and topographically corrected radiances and reflectance. 7.4.2.4 Step 4: Snow pixel identification Snow pixel identification will be done by using NDSI based approach which uses the normalized ratio of visible and SWIR wavelength reflectance. This prepares a binary map of either snow or non-snow pixels. 7.4.2.5 Snow fraction retrieval Fractional snow map will be prepared by using linear mixing approach. This considers land and pure snow as end members and compute the snow fraction of any particular pixel using reflectance value. 7.4.2.6 Snow Depth Estimation A statistical relationship was developed between snow fraction and depth (Romanov and Tarpley, 2004). Snow depth will be estimated by using this relationship for each