are greatly linked with clouds, therefore, underlines the study of diurnal cycles of clouds too. Ackerman and Cox (1981) had reported the diurnal oscillation of cloudiness in some tropical areas. These diurnal oscillations are part of dynamic-radiative feedback mechanism that operates on various spatial scales (Foltz and Gray, 1979). The cloud top pressure/temperature and cloud effective emissivity from INSAT-3D/3DR sounder is intended to be retrieved at ~50 km nominal resolution. The cloud products are retrieved at coarser resolution than to resolution of actual INSAT-3D/3DR sounder observations which are available at nominal resolution of ~10 km at nadir. The averaging of 5x5 pixels will enhance the signal to noise ratio over cloudy pixels. In general, noise over cloudy pixels is higher in comparison to clear pixels, therefore, it becomes essential to take average of observed radiances/brightness temperatures to reduce the noise for accurate estimation of cloud properties. Cloud properties from INSAT-3D/3DR sounder observations are very important parameters to study diurnal, seasonal or annual variations in cloud cover as these parameters are available at high temporal resolution at the same geographical location. These parameters could also help in INSAT-3D Incremental ATBD (MMDRPS), November 2018 112 segregating semi-transparent transmissive clouds (partially transparent to terrestrial radiation) opaque clouds in the analysis of cloud cover (Wylie and Menzel, 1989). Similar kind of studies are already carried out by Wylie et al. (1994) using NOAA-HIRS observations. 10.5. Algorithm Theoretical Description This section presents the theoretical basis of the algorithm and practical considerations. Retrieval of cloud products (CTP, CTT and effective cloud amount) is a combination of two methods: Window channel method and CO2 slicing method. Both of these methods require forecast fields of temperature and moisture. The CO2 slicing method requires the use of radiative transfer model. In this section physics of deriving cloud height and