practice there are generally bias errors associated with the comparison of observation and the forward calculation. These may be due to calibration error, uncertainties in the filter functions, or imprecision in the transmittance model used in the forward calculation. Consequently, prior to calculating retrieval, bias error for each band is subtracted from the observation. Estimates of the bias error are obtained by examining ensembles of collocated observations and forward calculations where the atmospheric state is well known (i.e. in the vicinity of radiosondes). 16.6.2 Data Required Parameter Source Temperature and humidity profile Radiosonde observations, IMD Ozone profile Ozonesonde observations, IMD Sounder Channel Observations collocated with radiosonde observations NOAA, EUMETSAT Space and time collocated (within 100 km in space and 3 hours in time) profiles of temperature, humidity and ozone may also be obtained from the various other satellite missions, such as Aqua-AIRS/MODIS/AMSU, Metop-IASI, NOAA-ATOVS/AMSU, etc for the purpose of inter-comparison. 16.6.3 Methods of Validation From the observed collocated profiles of temperature, humidity and ozone for clear sky conditions, brightness temperatures corresponding to Sounder channels will be computed with the help of fast radiative transfer model used in the physical retrieval routine. The computed brightness temperatures are analysed with Sounder-observed brightness temperatures to estimate the bias (slope and intercept of the linear regression equation) for each of the sounder channels. These bias-corrections will be implemented in the regression and physical retrieval routines to remove the bias between sounder observations and fast RT model computations. For clear sky conditions the observed profiles of temperature, humidity and ozone will be interpolated at the pressure levels of retrieval output (standard 40 pressure levels) and root mean square errors (rmse) from space and time collocated retrieved profiles will be computed at each vertical pressure levels. Separate statistics may be generated for retrievals over land and