modulator of the earth’s climate by reflecting visible radiation and intercepting part of the infrared radiation emitted by the Earth and re-radiating it back to the surface. The computation of radiative transfer within a cloudy atmosphere requires knowledge of the scattering efficiency, the single scattering albedo, and the asymmetry factor, which indicates the strength of forward scattering. SBDART contains an internal database of these parameters for clouds computed with a Mie scattering code and covers a range of particle size effective radius in the range 2 to 128 µm. By default, the angular distribution of scattered photons is based on the simple Henyey-Greenstein parameterization, but more detailed scattering functions may be input as desired. Gas Absorption Model: Standard SBDART uses low-resolution band models developed for the LOWTRAN 7 atmospheric transmission code (Pierluissi and Marogoudakis, 1986). These models provide the clear sky atmospheric transmission from 0 to 50000 cm-1 and include the effects of all radiatively active molecular species found in the earth's atmosphere. The models were derived from detailed line-by-line calculations, which were degraded to 20 cm-1 resolution for use in LOWTRAN. This translates to a wavelength resolution of about 0.005 µm in the visible and about 0.2 µm in the thermal infrared. A capability to read high- resolution k-distribution optical depths from a disk file is introduced in SBDART version 2.0 which is less convenient to use than the standard approach. However, it has the advantage of removing limitations in the ultimate spectral resolution available with SBDART. Extraterrestrial Source Spectra: SBDART has options for three extraterrestrial solar spectrum models: LOWTRAN-7 solar spectrum (Shettle and Fenn, 1975), solar models used in 5s or MODTRAN-3 solar spectrum. Standard Atmospheric Models: SBDART has six standard atmospheric profiles from the 5s atmospheric radiation code to model the following typical climatic conditions: tropical, mid-latitude