These measurements provide a direct physical basis for rain estimation. Also microwaves are largely intensive to the presence of ice in thin cirrus clouds but only suffers its poor resolution capability. The precipitation monitoring capability of SSM/I has been demonstrated by many investigators. Wilheit et al. (1991) used multichannel microwave measurements for the rainfall retrieval. Negri et al. (1989) discussed meteorological interpretations with the false color images of 85 GHz (HH, VV) and 37 GHz (VV) for precipitation processes and clarification of land, ocean and sea ice types with SSM/I. Berg (1992) estimated and analyze inter-annual variations in the tropical oceanic rainfall using data from SSM/I. ). Microwave radiances reaching satellite altitudes from precipitating clouds containing aspherical ice, combined phase hydrometeors and the background atmosphere (cloud liquid water, water vapor and gaseous constituents etc.) within the instrument field of view. The upwelling radiation observed by a microwave radiometer is expressed as an equivalent brightness temperature Tb and the ability Megha-Tropiques ATBD Ver 3.0 10 of passive microwave radiometer to infer rainfall depends largely on the contrast between the observed brightness temperatures over raining and non-raining areas. Some of the sensitivity studies have been carried out through radiative transfer simulation by (Swaminathan et al. 2005, Deiveegan et al. 2007, Viltard et al. 1998, Bauer et al. 1993, Gairola et al. 2001, 2005 etc) and through the empirical approach (Varma et al. 2003, Pokhrel et al. 2004 etc.) and showed the possibility of rainfall over Ocean and land regions. Utilizing the frequency and polarization discrimination of passive microwave measurements from space, it has been successfully demonstrated that satisfactory rainfall retrievals both over land and oceanic areas are feasible. It has been seen that satellite estimates based on passive measurements portray the rainfall as accurately as radar both in terms of relative intensity