et al., 1997). It is critical to use the representative surface reflectance spectra in data simulations. Different surface reflectance spectra covering the spectral range 0.4–2.5 um representing vegetation, sand, water, snow surfaces were interpolated in the study. The simulation outputs include total shortwave albedo and spectral albedos that are calculated by incorporating the sensor spectral response functions. In the 6SV simulations, varying aerosol optical thickness values corresponding to lower to higher aerosol loadings, continental aerosol model, and tropical atmospheric profile that also represent different water vapor and other gaseous amounts and profiles. The aerosol model used are the defaults in 6SV and atmospheric profiles over Indian region were used in the simulations. For the operational application of this method, more should perhaps be included to represent the variable atmospheric conditions. The upwelling TOA radiance (L) is further normalized to apparent spectral reflectance (a) using the expression, Where, d is the Sun-Earth distance in Astronomical Units, E0 is exo-atmospheric solar irradiance and s is the sun zenith angle. Land surface broadband albedo is defined as the ratio of the surface upwelling flux (Fu) to the downward flux (Fd) (Liang, 2003), where  is denoted to the waveband from wavelength 1 to wavelength 2 If  albedo is the total shortwave broadband albedo. The wave range  (0.4, 0. and  (0.7, 4um) correspond to visible and near-infrared (near-IR) albedos, respectively.  is the surface spectral reflectance spectra. One of the major limitations in this simulation study is its assumption of Lambertian surfaces. The major reason is that we do not have a good understanding of the directional reflectance properties of various surface types at the INSAT-3D Imager resolution. INSAT-3D Incremental ATBD (MMDRPS), November 2018 40 3.4.2. Generation of narrow to broadband albedo conversion coefficients Once the database is created from the