attributes along with each dataset: Table 2.26 Attributes of Ancillary Datasets S. No. Attribute Name Data type Description Applicable Levels 1. long_name string, length=variable Descriptive name of the dataset L1B, L1C 2. add_offset string, length=variable CF-compliant attribute for defining add offset (used in scaling the values). L1B, L1C 3. scale_factor string, length=variable CF-compliant attribute for defining scale factor (used in scaling the values). L1B, L1C 4. _FillValue Same as dataset data-type CF-compliant attribute used where the dataset is missing L1B, L1C 5. units string, length=variable Unit string defining the units of Ancillary dataset L1B, L1C 6. coordinates string, length=variable CF-compliant attribute for associating coordinate variables with the ancillary variable. For example “time latitude longitude” L1B 7. grid_mapping string, length=variable CF-compliant attribute for associating coordinate variables with the ancillary variable. For example “Mercator” for Mercator Projection. L1C For generating latitude and longitude, formulae for forward and inverse transformation can be referred at: 1. For Lambert Conformal Conic, refer [3] 2. For Mercator, refer [4] 20 2.8 Dimension Scales By default for every dataset created dimension scales are created for every dimension of unique length. For L1B and L2B Products following dimensions are created: Table 2.27 Dimension for L1B and L2B Products S. No. Dimension Name Description 1. time Time dimension for All Channels 2. GeoX Dimension for pixel direction of TIR1, TIR2, and MIR channels 3. GeoY Dimension for scan direction of TIR1, TIR2, and MIR channels 4. GeoX1 Dimension for pixel direction of WV channels 5. GeoY1 Dimension for scan direction of WV channels 6. GeoX2 Dimension for VIS and SWIR channels 7. GeoY2 Dimension for VIS and SWIR channels GeoY* and GeoX* contains the scan and pixel values of the image along scan and pixel direction. For L1C Products, following dimensions are created: Table 2.28 Dimension for L1C Products