radiative effects of several lower and upper atmosphere aerosol types. The radiative transfer equation is numerically integrated with DISORT. This module was designed to treat the plane parallel radiative transfer. The discrete ordinate method provides a stable algorithm to calculate the plane parallel radiative transfer equation in vertically inhomogeneous atmosphere. SBDART contains pre-computed scattering parameters for the effective radii in the 2-128μm range. In order to compute the radiative transfer through the cirrus clouds, it also includes scattering parameters of spherical ice grains for single size distribution. SBDART computes intensity of scattered and thermally emitted radiation at different heights. It allows up to 50 atmospheric layers and 20 radiation streams. The determination of cloud optical depth and cloud effective radius from spectral reflectance measurements constitutes the inverse problem and is typically solved by comparing the measured reflectances with entries in a lookup table and searching for the combination of τc and re that gives the best fit (Twomey and Cocks 1982, 1989). INSAT-3D Incremental ATBD (MMDRPS), November 2018 125 11.6.4. Flow Chart Figure 1: Flow diagram for cloud microphysical parameter retrieval 11.7. Operational retrieval implementation The operational implementation of the retrieval process can be enumerated as follows: a) Generation of random values within range of solar zenith angle (SZA), cloud optical depth, cloud effective radius b) Running of RT model for the random vectors and range of satellite zenith (satzen) and azimuth angles (satazi) to generate LUT for visible and swir channel c) The input random vectors and corresponding LUT is stored. d) Steps (1-3) are offline processes. e) In online algo, pixel wise value of swir radiance , vis radiance, SZA, satzen, satazi are taken as input. Using land-sea mask, only oceanic geo-type pixels are chosen. f) A triple vector search is performed in input fields of LUT to