and polarization discrimination of passive microwave measurements from space, it has been successfully demonstrated that satisfactory rainfall retrievals both over land and oceanic areas are feasible. It has been seen that satellite estimates based on passive measurements portray the rainfall as accurately as radar both in terms of relative intensity and spatial distribution. Rainfall over the oceans are retrieved relatively more reliably than over land. In total, the applications that benefited from microwave rainfall estimates include weather forecasting (Xiao et al. 2000), climate analysis (Hou et al. 2000), and hydrological studies (Petty and Krajwski 1996). The successful use of PM- based rain estimates in applications from various fields encourages the continuation of efforts towards the development of more advanced rain retrieval algorithms, despite obvious limitations associated with the low sampling frequency of orbiting platforms carrying PM sensors. The recent availability of detailed precipitation observations jointly obtained by the first space-borne precipitation radar (PR) and a multifrequency passive microwave radiometer, TMI, on NASA and NASDA’s TRMM satellite (Simpsion et al. 1996) offers such an excellent opportunity for studying such issues. Still with such missions dedicated to rainfall estimation, rain retrieval algorithms from PM radiometry suffer from various limitations. These limitations originate in the multiple hydrometeor profiles that can be associated with a set of multifrequency PM measurements (i.e., lack of unique solution The indeterminacy is more ever for overland retrievals because of the warm background brightness temperatures that limit the use of lower-frequency observations (i.e., 10, 19, and 22 GHz). Some algorithms, referred to as physically based, are derived using radiative transfer calculations through cloud-model simulated fields (Kummerow et al. 1996, Haferman et al. 1997). The physically based algorithms were mainly investigated in over ocean retrievals. Such physically based retrieval over land are few and have not indicated better performance relative