weather station measurements) and vapor pressure deficit. This method provides good evapo-transpiration estimates for low-resolution applications such as worldwide scale and monthly time step. The accuracy is limited by the high uncertainties provided by satellite- sensed vapor pressure estimation. Later, Bois et al. (2008) used remotely sensed solar radiation from METEOSAT observations from Heliosat-2 approach (Rigollier et al. 2004) and air temperature data to estimate ETo using Hargreaves approach. The ETo can also be available as forecast bi- product from weather forecasting model. However, recent evaluation of predicted radiative fluxes and operational short-range forecasts (24 hrs average) of routine weather elements from model for a limited winter months showed that the incident shortwave radiative flux produced the highest root mean square error to the tune of 110% (Bhattacharya et al, 2012a) amongst others as compared to in situ measurements from INSAT-linked micrometeorological stations (popularly known as AMS). However, the errors of short-range forecast of air temperatures, relative humidity, atmospheric pressure, wind speed at 10 m height were 3%, 12%, 21% and 1.4% respectively over plain and pleateu regions. The per cent RMSE for last four variables were found to increase in the hilly terrain (Bhattacharya et al, 2012a). Expectedly, the ET0 would have substantial errors propagated mainly from incident solar radiation flux estimation. on the other hand, the operational product on daily insolation from Kalpana-1 VHRR produced around 25% RMSE (Bhattacharya et al, 2012b) with respect to same ground reference and the per cent RMSE decreased with averaging over weekly, ten-day, fortnightly and monthly scales up to 15%. After improvement in the cloud flagging and the spatial resolution of operational insolation product from INSAT 3D, it is expected to produce substantially less errors. Therefore, it seems wise to use the combination of daily insolation product from INSAT 3D and operational