are sea surface temperature and emissivity, , , p are incidence angle, frequency of SAPHIR channel and polarization. Tbup, TBdn are upwelling and down-welling atmospheric brightness temperatures. The models used are those of Liebe (1993) for atmospheric absorption, Hollinger (1973) for calm, Stogryn (1972) for wind roughened and Wilheit (1979) for foam covered sea surface emissivity, respectively. Low frequency wing of SAPHIR channels have been considered for the simulations of brightness temperatures. For the microwave frequencies in the resonance region of dominant absorbers like water vapour and oxygen, the transmittance is very low or negligible so that the contribution to the total radiation to the radiometer by reflected down-welling and surface radiations becomes negligible. Therefore, the total brightness temperature is expressed as (6) The product of absorption due to a thin atmospheric layer and the transmittance of the overlying atmosphere is known as the weighting function as given below (7) with The profile of weighting function with altitude is characterized by the absorption profile for a specific frequency. The weighting function profile has a peak at a particular altitude for a particular frequency in resonance region. This implies the maximum sensitivity of a channel at the peak altitude of weighting function. This forms the basis for the sounding of the atmosphere at various altitudes using different channels in the resonance region. On the other hand, the radiation received by the radiometer is the weighted contribution by different layers of the atmosphere with maximum contributions from the layers having peak weighting function. The peak of the weighting function shifts towards higher altitude as the channel frequency nears the resonance line of an absorber. Contrary to it, the peak of weighting function shifts towards surface for transparent or window channels and the atmospheric contributions also reduce to greater extents. The window channels