conversion systems such as solar PV or thermal power plants (Janjai et al, 2005). Conventionally, these maps are constructed from high density network of pyranometers. However, in India, a very sparse network of pyranometer stations is presently operating. Interpolation from such sparse network produces large errors (60- 70%) due to large uncertainties of intermittent diurnal cloud cover, cloud types and atmospheric turbidity in cloudless skies. Moreover, high maintenance costs and lack of availability of real-time data are major impediments. Several estimation models have been developed based on temperature amplitude, sunshine hours or cloud cover and Surface insolation over land INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 339 combination of temperature, humidity, rainfall, but these require site and season specific calibration coefficients and thus difficult to extrapolate. Moreover, such models do not explicitly consider the role of atmospheric constituents such as air molecule, aerosol, water vapour, ozone. The use of remote sensing observations from geostationary satellite sensors that have high temporal sampling frequency (multiple passes every day) are ideal to capture spatio-temporal variability of surface insolation for those regions where regular measurements from sparse radiation network and their availability are not consistent till date. 20.2.1 Overview and background Broadly, two approaches such as (a) statistical or empirical (Tarpley, 1979; Noia et al, 1993) and (b) physical or radiative transfer (Tanahashi et al, 2001) schemes are in use to estimate surface insolation using geostationary satellite data using broad visible band and thermal infrared bands. Empirical or statistical techniques for surface insolation include Heliosat (Dagestad, 2004), contrast ratio (Rosema et al, 2004) approaches applied to Meteosat. Heliosat model has been developed under Helioclim project of Europe and has undergone several revisions. It is based on deriving cloudiness index from maximum, minimum albedo in a time series and current albedo. This cloudiness index is converted into