(SARAL/AltiKa,…), instrumental expertise for altimeter and radiometer monitoring, and by performing absolute calibration at dedicated in situ calibration sites. This verification phase is divided in 2 phases which overlap: 1. One dedicated to the validation of the near real time products (OGDRs). 2. The second phase dedicated to the validation of the off-line products (IGDR and GDR). 2.6.4.2. The operational (routine and long-term CALVAL activities) The operational phase begins after the successful validation of each product type, and when all necessary algorithm and processing changes are implemented to have SARAL/AltiKa performances at the same level as other altimetric satellites. Beyond the CALVAL phase, it is necessary to perform regular long-term CALVAL in order to monitor biases and drifts of AltiKa overall system: in addition to previously mentioned analysis, comparison of SARAL/AltiKa data with global and regional networks of in situ data (tide gauges, T/S profiles, …) will be performed as soon as enough in situ data are available (~1 year after launch). These different analysis will also be implemented in order to calibrate and validate new ground processing algorithms that could be proposed and implemented during the CALVAL phase. SARAL/AltiKa Products Handbook Iss :1.2 - date : December 12, 2011 32 Considering the specificities of SARAL/AltiKa mission, particular attention will be given to evaluate and monitor the mission performances over coastal and inland water areas, over polar oceans and ice surfaces, as well as under rainy/cloudy conditions, with respect to previous and other in-flight altimetry missions. 2.7. Data Processing and Distribution Processing centers perform functions such as science data processing, data verification and orbit determination. There are three levels of processed data: • Telemetry data (raw data or level0) • Sensor Data Records (engineering units or level1) • Geophysical Data Records (geophysical units or level2) There are two kinds of