of temperature, humidity and ozone will be interpolated at the pressure levels of retrieval output (standard 40 pressure levels) and root mean square errors (rmse) from space and time collocated retrieved profiles will be computed at each vertical pressure levels. Separate statistics may be generated for retrievals over land and ocean. Temperature, Moisture Profile and Total Ozone from Sounder INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 264 16.7 Technical Issues Final accuracy of the retrieved profiles will largely depend upon the accuracy of the fast radiative transfer model used in the retrieval procedure. Therefore, fast radiative transfer model needs to be properly validated and the forward model errors should be within instrument noise level. Ancillary data improves the quality of sounding retrieval near surface. However, such observations are very few over Indian region (INSAT-3D viewing region), therefore, the network of the automatic weather stations (AWS) needs to be strengthened. IMD has a network of radiosonde observations over India; however, for INSAT-3D validation and bias removal procedure highly accurate profiles are required. Therefore, for a limited period of time (6 months after launch), high quality radiosonde (Vaisala) observations should be available over land as well as ocean (special ship cruises) under clear sky conditions. Currently, ozone information is available only from single channel in Sounder, therefore, retrieval of ozone profile may not be very accurate and column integrated ozone will be more reliable product. 16.8 Future Scope With the advancement in the spectroscopic measurements of atmospheric gases it is possible to make improvement in the radiative transfer model. Improved fast radiative transfer models may be coupled with the physical retrieval routine in future, as and when available. Improvements will also be attempted by incorporating improved training dataset in regression retrieval. Another area for future development is improvement of cloud detection algorithm. This may