wind is the main driving force for ocean circulation and for generation of surface waves and currents. It plays an important role in air-sea interaction, upwelling, biogeochemical transport in the ocean and several other processes. The ocean surface wind vector is an essential input parameter for prediction models of ocean circulation and waves, which are used for oceanographic applications and climate related studies. It is also an indispensable parameter along with a few others, for the prediction of storm surges caused by storms formed in the oceans, which hit the coasts causing disaster in the coastal regions. Besides meteorological applications, ocean surface wind provides forcing parameters for studying the ocean general circulation. Scatterometer data can also be useful for ocean wave mapping and wave forecasting, offshore activities, ship routing, fisheries etc. Besides, wind vectors from scatterometer, when properly assimilated in an appropriate numerical model, helps improving weather forecast. Repetitive measurements of surface wind field over global oceans are thus necessary for the above studies and applications. Wind vectors are usually obtained from microwave scatterometers operating at microwave frequencies in 5-14 GHz range. This part of the spectrum is useful for measurements under all weather conditions except heavy precipitation. However, the wind speeds can also be obtained from space-borne microwave radiometers and altimeters. Moreover, the upcoming microwave polarimetry is being considered for vector wind measurements. 2.0 Scatterometer measurements: Active microwave remote sensing of ocean surface winds has started since the launch of SEASAT in 1978. This was the first satellite dedicated to the ocean research and was an experimental satellite, which demonstrated the retrieval of wind to an accuracy of 2 m/s, from wide swath scatterometer. ERS-1 & 2 satellites were launched with C-band microwave scatterometers. Japanese satellite ADEOS-1 carried a Ku-band scatterometer. Pencil-beam scatterometers operating at Ku-band were launched onboard