and various other derived products. Atmospheric profile retrieval algorithm for INSAT-3D Sounder is a two-step approach. The first step includes generation of accurate hybrid first guess profiles using combination of statistical regression retrieved profiles and model forecast profiles. The second step is nonlinear physical retrieval to improve the resulting first guess profile using Newtonian iterative method. Temperature, Moisture Profile and Total Ozone from Sounder INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 246 The retrievals will be performed using clear sky radiances measured by Sounder within a 5x5 field of view (approximately 50 km resolution) over land and ocean for both day and night. Four sets of regression coefficients will be generated. Two sets for land and ocean daytime conditions and the other two sets for land and ocean night-time conditions using a training dataset comprising historical radiosonde observations representing atmospheric conditions over INSAT-3D observation region. The retrieval algorithm discussed here is adapted from CIMSS algorithm for GOES-Sounder and is primarily based on the retrieval algorithms of Li et al. (2000), Ma et al. (1999), Smith and Woolf (1988) and Hayden (1988). Temperature and moisture profiles at Sounder resolution are required for numerical weather prediction in short to medium range besides various other weather and climate applications. High temporal resolution of sounding data from geostationary satellite INSAT-3D will provide a wealth of new information on atmospheric structure in clear-sky conditions. Retrieval of atmospheric profiles at high spatial and temporal resolutions will immensely improve mesoscale prediction. 16.2.2 History of atmospheric sounding King (1956) was first to suggest that atmospheric temperature profiles could be inferred from satellite observations of thermal infrared emission and explained the feasibility of retrieving the temperature profile from the satellite intensity scan measurements. Further advances were made for the temperature-sounding concept when Kaplan demonstrated (1959) that vertical profile of temperature could