regions, and although satellite measurements are now commonly available, these have limitations too. Frequent observations from visible (VIS) and infrared (IR) sensors are hindered by the fact that estimates of precipitation are indirect and therefore prone to errors caused by cloud-top to surface rainfall variations. More direct measurements of precipitation through the use of passive microwave (PMW) instruments are somewhat restricted due their relative infrequent sampling of precipitation. Thus the algorithms for merging of microwave data with IR images to generate rainfall rates at the spatial and temporal resolutions of the IR sensor is highly desirable. The combined approaches can improve rainfall estimates using the temporal sampling of the VIS/IR data and the more direct nature of the microwave estimates, avoiding the mentioned weaknesses and re-inforce the mutual strengths. At present we have proposed to use Geostationary optical channels and low earth orbiting microwaves for the rainfall estimation by their inter-calibration process and finally validations with the ground truth. In future this approach can be further advanced by optimally integrating optical and microwave measurements by proper data assimilation schemes which will provide better rainfall than any of the sensors (optical, microwave and ground truth) alone. In future sensitivity studies could be made to estimate rainfall over the Indian monsoon region by the synergistic use of the geostationary INSAT-3D -derived IMSRA rainfall estimates and rain data from GPM Microwave Radiometer (GMI), using a suitable objective analysis method. This will benefit from high spatial and temporal resolutions of the geostationary satellite and infrequent but more accurate microwave based rainfall estimates. References Adler, R. F., and A. J. Negri, 1988: A satellite infrared technique to estimate tropical convective and stratiform rainfall. J. Appl. Meteorol., 27, 30-51. Adler, R. F., G. J. Huffman, and P. R. Keehn, 1994: Global tropical rain estimates frommicrowave- adjusted