declarations of dimensions, variables, and attributes but no data values for any variables -c Show the values of coordinate variables (variables that are also dimensions) as well as the declarations of all dimensions, variables, and attribute values -v var1,...,varn The output will include data values for the specified variables, in addition to the declarations of all dimensions, variables, and attributes -x var1,...,varn Output XML (NcML) instead of CDL. The NcML does not include data values 6.4.2. Additional general software 6.4.2.1. ncbrowse “ncBrowse” is a Java application that provides flexible, interactive graphical displays of data and attributes from a wide range of netCDF data file conventions. See http://www.epic.noaa.gov/java/ncBrowse/ 6.4.2.2. netCDF Operator (NCO) The netCDF Operators, or “NCO”, are a suite of programs known as operators. Each operator is a standalone, command line program which is executed at the UNIX shell-level, like, e.g., ls or mkdir. The operators take netCDF files as input, then perform a set of operations (e.g., deriving new data, averaging, hyperslabbing, or metadata manipulation) and produce a netCDF file as output. The operators are primarily designed to aid manipulation and analysis of gridded scientific data. The single command style of NCO allows users to manipulate and analyze files interactively and with simple scripts, avoiding the overhead (and some of the power) of a higher level programming environment. See http://nco.sourceforge.net/ 6.4.3. Additional specific software : “BRAT” The “Basic Radar Altimetry Toolbox” is a collection of tools and tutorial documents designed to facilitate the use of radar altimetry data. It is able to read most distributed radar altimetry data from all the satellites, to do some processing, data editing and statistic over them, and to visualise the results. The Basic Radar Altimetry Toolbox is able to read ERS-1 and 2, TOPEX/Poseidon, GEOSAT Follow-on, Jason-1, Jason-2, ENVISAT, SARAL/AltiKa and CRYOSAT-2 missions