for rain estimation, yet it is shown for its use for rain identification as well as for rain estimation. The best instrument on MT for rain estimation is MADRAS but it has already been declared as non-operational due to problem with its scanning mechanism. In the absence of MADRAS observations, SAPHIR measurements can serve as supplementary to MADRAS measurements for rain measurement to fulfill the science objectives of the MT mission. The SAPHIR based rain identification may even help flagging off the humidity profile measurements by it. The rain measurement from SAPHIR opens up opportunity for measuring rain from similar channels available on other satellite missions. In future, there is also possibility to combine SAPHIR measurements with thermal IR measurements from another instrument, ScaRaB, on Megha-Tropiques for more accurate rain measurement. 8. Acknowledgement Authors are thankful to NASA, USA for TRMM data and Remote Sensing Systems, USA for SSM/I data. Authors are also thankful to Director SAC for his encouragement. 13 References Anonymous, 2011, Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission (TRMM) Precipitation Radar Algorithm, Instruction Manual for Version 7, Published by TRMM Precipitation Radar Team, Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA), and National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), (available at: http://www.eorc.jaxa.jp/TRMM/documents/PR_algorithm_product_information/pr_m anual/PR_Instruction_Manual_V7_L1.pdf), p 170. Aonashi K., Awaka J., Hirose M., Kozu T., Liu G., Shinge S., Kida S., Seto S., Takahashi N., and Takayabu Y. N., 2009, GSMaP passive microwave precipitation retrieval algorithm: Algorithm description and validation. J. Metror. Soc. Japan, 87A, 119-136. Awaka, J., T. Iguchi, H. Kumagai, and K. Okamoto, 1997, Rain type classification lgorithm for TRMM precipitation radar. Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. on Geoscience and Remote Sensing (IGARSS-97)—A Scientific Vision for Sustainable Development, 4, IEEE, 1633–1635. Bennartz, R., and P. Bauer, 2003, Sensitivity of microwave radiances at 85 –183 GHz to precipitating ice particles, Radio Science, 38(4), 8075, doi:10.1029/2002RS002626. Buehler,