provide the clear sky atmospheric transmisson from 0 to 50000 cm-1 and include the effects of all radiatively active molecular species found in the earth's atmosphere. The models were derived from detailed line-by-line calculations, which were degraded to 20 cm-1 resolutions for use in LOWTRAN. This translates to a wavelength resolution of about 5 nm in the visible and about 200 nm in the thermal infrared. A capability to read high-resolution k-distribution optical depths from a disk file is introduced in SBDART version 2.0 which is less convenient to use than the standard approach. However, it has the advantage of removing limitations in the ultimate spectral resolution available with SBDART. Extraterrestrial Source Spectra: SBDART has options for three extraterrestrial solar spectrum models: LOWTRAN-7 solar spectrum (Shettle and Fenn, 1975), solar models used in 5s (Tanre, 1988) or MODTRAN-3 solar spectrum. Standard Atmospheric Models: SBDART has six standard atmospheric profiles from the 5s atmospheric radiation code to model the following typical climatic conditions: tropical, midlatitude summer, midlatitude winter, subarctic summer, subarctic winter and US62. These model atmospheres (McClatchey et al, 1971) have been widely used in the atmospheric research community and provide standard vertical profiles of pressure, temperature, water vapor and ozone density. Optionally users can specify their own model atmosphere, e.g, a radiosonde profile. The concentration of trace gases such as CO2 or CH4 are assumed to make up a fixed fraction (which may be specified by the user) of the total particle density. Standard Aerosol Models: SBDART can compute the radiative effects of several common boundary layer and upper atmosphere aerosol types. In the boundary layer, the Upper tropospheric humidity INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 237 user can select from rural, urban, or maritime aerosols. The total vertical optical depth of boundary layer aerosols is derived from user specified