Lat , Lon, AOD , Domain : 40 to 40 N, 30 E to 120 E 10.6 Validation 10.6.1 Data required Prameter Resolution Source AERONET spectral AOD data In-situ point observation AERONET sites in India Kanpur, Gandhi college (Patna) and Jaipur Spectral AOD using handheld sun-photometer In-situ point observation Data collection campaigns will be organized MODIS AOD products 0.1 to 1 degree Data available through internet 10.6.2 Methods of validation AERONET data for Validation Post-launch routine ground-based observations can be made using AERONET, and any of the several miscellaneous techniques, including the diffuse/direct method, aureole meters, and polarization measurements. AeRoNet (Aerosol Robotic Network) is a network of ground-based sun-photometers established and maintained by Brent Holben of Code 923 of the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center and Tom Eck of Raytheon ITSS. The sun-photometers measure the spectral aerosol optical thickness and sky radiance. In India 3 Aeronet sites namely Kanpur, Goa and Dharwar are providing systematic in-situ AOD measurements. Data from these sites will be used for validation of INSAT- 3D/3DR derived AODs. Post-Launch Special Field Experiments Many of the present satellite observations are augmented by special field campaigns to provide ground-truth data for the satellite-derived measurements. The INSAT-3D/3DR Imager derived aerosol optical thickness measurements will be validated using hand-held sun-photometer. The details of these campaigns (timing, location, instrumentation, etc.) will be decided later on. Aerosol Post-Launch Satellite-Based Inter-comparisons INSAT-3D/3DR Imager derived aerosol optical depths may be validated by comparing them with aerosol optical depths derived by other satellite sensors, such as MODIS. The basic inter-comparison technique involves three steps: 1) identification of locations where both sensors fly over at nearly the same time; 2) extraction of data for storage in an inter- comparison archive; 3) analysis of the differences between the measurements. 10.7 Technical issues (Limitation etc.) Accuracy of the