observations shows a considerable improvement in terms of correlation, bias and root-mean-square error after objective analysis, especially over the regions where density of rain gauge is fairly good. Overall results reveal that the synergistic use of satellite and in situ observations has potential for more accurate rainfall estimations over the Indian monsoon region. Flow Chart for Merged Rain Products (IMSRA and Rain Gauges) Fig. 5. An example of Distributions of daily-accumulated rainfall (mm) over the Indian monsoon region derived from IMSRA, merged-IMSRA, and TMPA-V7 for August 6, 2010. 15.7.1. Major Conclusions  The overestimation tendencies of IMSRA Rain can be considerably reduced by new scheme (Cloud growth & global bias correction).  Orographic region shows significant improvement by the climatological orographic bias correction.  Finally the merged rainfall over India from IMSRA and surface rain gauge data shows the IMSRA Rainfall (from Flow Chart in Fig 3) Objective Analysis Daily National Rain Gauge Data Merged Daily Rainfall INSAT-3D Incremental ATBD (MMDRPS), November 2018 186 improved rain estimates at a 0.1º latitude × 0.1º longitude spatial resolution.  While the modified IMSRA rain products will be available after every half hourly, the merged products will be generated every next day for daily rainfall subject to the availability of rain gauge data from IMD. 15.8. Future Scope Due to the heterogeneity of precipitation over the Earth’s surface it is important that corrections be applied time to time to the algorithms depending on region specific processes. Conventional means are restricted primarily to certain-land regions, and although satellite measurements are now commonly available, these have limitations too. Frequent observations from visible (VIS) and infrared (IR) sensors are hindered by the fact that estimates of precipitation are indirect and therefore prone to errors caused by cloud-top to surface rainfall variations. More direct measurements of precipitation