his evaporation equation for natural surfaces for water non-limiting conditions. This is known as potential evapotranspiration (PET). Monteith (1964) developed a modified version of the Penman equation in which biophysics was introduced through a surface or canopy resistance – the now well-known Penman–Monteith (P-M) combination equation – that allowed for vegetation control on transpiration rates. Choudhury (1997) proposed a method to assess by means of satellite data, such as remotely sensed solar radiation, air temperature (derived from infrared images and weather station measurements) and vapor pressure deficit. This method provides good evapo-transpiration estimates for low- resolution applications such as worldwide scale and monthly time step. The accuracy is limited by the high uncertainties provided by satellite-sensed vapor pressure estimation. Later, Bois et al. (2008) used remotely sensed solar radiation from METEOSAT observations from Heliosat-2 approach (Rigollier et al. 2004) and air temperature data to estimate ETo using Hargreaves approach. The ETo can also be available as forecast bi-product from weather forecasting model. However, recent evaluation of predicted radiative fluxes and operational short- range forecasts (24 hrs average) of routine weather elements from model for a limited winter months showed that the incident shortwave radiative flux produced the highest root mean square error to the tune of 110% (Bhattacharya et al, 2012a) amongst others as compared to in situ measurements from INSAT-linked micrometeorological stations (popularly known as AMS). However, the errors of short-range forecast of air temperatures, relative humidity, atmospheric pressure, wind speed at 10 m height were 3%, 12%, 21% and 1.4% respectively over plain and pleateu regions. The per cent RMSE for last four variables were found to increase in the hilly terrain (Bhattacharya et al, 2012a). Expectedly, the ET0 would have substantial errors propagated mainly from incident solar radiation flux estimation. on the other hand, the operational product