Abhineet Shyam and B S Gohil ATBD for Temperature and water vapor partial pressure retrieval from ROSA-derived refractiv- –ity 6.2 Introduction Temperature, pressure and humidity information are, inter-alia, vital information as to the state of the atmosphere, of critical importance to studies of weather and climate. GPS-Radio Occultation (GPS-RO) based retrieval of these atmospheric parameters is a relatively novel approach to limb sounding technique, with the constellation of GPS satellites and deployed Low Earth Orbit (LEO) receiver/s constituting its gross measurement system. ROSA, onboard MEGHA-TROPIQUES, is the deployed GPS receiver in context tracking L-band dual-frequency signals transmitted by GPS satellites. Operating frequency Specification L1 C/A code signal L1 P-code signal L2 P-code signal 1575.42 MHz 1575.42 MHz 1227.60 MHz The orbital specification of Megha-Tropiques combined with ROSA receiver specification, is likely to result in occultation event frequency in excess of 500 per day with spatial coverage from 30S – 30N latitude. Multiple space-based GPS receivers are configured to give increased occultation events. Currently, COSMIC, which is a constellation of six receivers, is a multiple-receiver mission yielding between 1800-2500 occultations per day and a dense coverage of mid-latitude region. This document is primarily concerned with the delineation and description of conceptual constructs in the retrieval of afore-mentioned geophysical parameters Megha-Tropiques ATBD Ver 3.0 68 from GPS-RO derived refractivity and the associated elements in development of the algorithm for the same and its operational implementation. A meaningful starting point for this purpose is the relationship, also called forward model, between the derived refractivity and geophysical parameters to be retrieved viz. temperature (T), pressure (P) and water vapor partial pressure (e). However, a brief overview of the theoretical background of the GPS-RO technique, beginning with the raw measurements to the derivation of refractivity, is given for greater comprehension and continuity. 6.2.1 Theoretical Background