certain local times and specific directions of view depending on orbital constraints Megha-Tropiques ATBD Ver 3.0 56 and instrument scanning capabilities. Due to the smaller spatial view of the ScaRaB, only limited angular coverage is possible by each observation. In the case of ScaRaB, the direct measurement is radiance while the desired measurement is radiative flux at the top of atmosphere. Derivation of the radiative flux using the ScaRaB radiance observations then requires the use of measured satellite radiances and assumptions about the anisotropy of the earth’s radiation field. The primary modification of the earth’s anisotropy is caused by the variations in cloud properties. In this document details about the ScaRaB/Megha- Tropiques data processing system that can compute top of atmosphere shortwave (SW) and Longwave (LW) fluxes from measured radiances is described. 5.2.1 Overview and Background: The ScaRaB/Megha-Tropiques data processing system corresponds to the ERBE- like data processing system, already used and assessed by the former ERBE, ScaRaB and CERES experiments. In this system, the ‘maximum likelihood estimation’ algorithm (Wielicki and Green, 1989) is used for scene identification. The 12-scene classification is based on five geo-types [ocean, land, snow-ice, desert and coast] and four cloud types [clear, partly cloudy, mostly cloudy and overcast]. The raw radiances are first corrected for spectral filtering effects as a function of identified scene. Next scene-type dependent angular correction models (anisotropic factor from Suttles et al, 1988; 1989) are used to deduce the SW and LW fluxes of the pixel as a function of measured radiances. Three important steps involved in the ScaRaB radiance to flux computation are: 1. Spectral correction 2. Scene Identification and 3. Flux computation (by applying scene-type dependent ADM). 5.2.1.1 Spectral Correction The calibrations of the filtered radiances LTf and LSWf are normalized to precise radiation sources: blackbodies at temperature respectively