SARAL stands for SAtellite for ARgos and ALtiKa. This mission continues the series of successful altimetric missions such as TOPEX/Poseidon and Jason missions. While they were conducted under a cooperation between the French Space Agency, "Centre National d'Etudes Spatiales" (CNES), the United States National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the European Organization for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites (EUMETSAT) and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), SARAL/AltiKa is a new collaboration between CNES and ISRO (Indian Space Research Organization). 1.1. Overview of the SARAL/AltiKa product family The purpose of this document is to assist users of the SARAL/AltiKa products (Operational Geophysical Data Record : OGDR, Interim Geophysical Data Record : IGDR, and Geophysical Data Record : GDR) by providing a comprehensive description of product content and format. We will so refer to (O)(I)GDR in this document when the information is relevant for all the products. (O)(I)GDR products are identical except for the following differences regarding the auxiliary data used in the processing: Auxiliary Data Impacted Parameter OGDR IGDR GDR Orbit Satellite altitude, Doppler correction, … DORIS Navigator Preliminary (DORIS MOE) Precise (DORIS+Laser POE) Platform Mispointing angle Not available Restituted (MOE) Restituted (POE) Meteo Fields Dry/wet tropospheric corrections, U/V wind vector, Surface pressure, Inverted barometer correction, … Predicted Restituted Pole Location Pole tide height Predicted Restituted Mog2D HF ocean dealiasing correction Not available Preliminary Precise GIM Ionosphere correction Available Radiometer antenna temperatures coeff. Wet tropospheric correction, Sigma0 rain attenuation, … Preliminary Precise (accounting for radiometer calibration) Table 1 : Differences between Auxiliary Data for O/I/GDR Products GDR products, unlike OGDR and IGDR products, are fully validated products. 1.1.1. Product contents The Level-2 products from this mission comprise a family of nine different types of geophysical data records (GDRs). As illustrated in Table 1 below, there are three families of GDRs,