fraction and snow depth based approach Developing and validating. Sensor parameter Sun-solar geometry Deriving snow fraction map Generation of snow cover map Topographic map Digital Elevation Model Terrain parameters Computation of Slope and aspect of terrain. AOD, O3, and other gases Transmittance coefficient Atmospheric correction To minimize atmospheric contribution AWiFS Land cover map Modify NDSI value Improve accuracy Reflectance library Reflectance in visible and SWIR region NDSI threshold value before launce Development and validation of algorithm AWiFS Water mask Remove water bodies Improve accuracy 7.4 Algorithm Functional Specifications 7.4.1 Overview First step in this study is estimation of snow pixels. A grouped-criteria technique incorporating a NDSI and threshold-based criterion for the algorithm will be used due to the following reasons: 1) Similar algorithm is developed for AWiFS sensor of Resourcesat. Its accuracy has been tested over a variety of surface covers relative to snow cover maps prepared from other techniques. Similar algorithm is also being used to generate snow maps using MODIS data. 2) The technique can map snow under mountain shadow and independent of local solar illumination angle. It makes this algorithm highly suitable for mountainous terrain as Himalayas. 3) INSAT 3D Met payloads have a channel between 1.55 to 1.75 m with 1 km spatial resolution. Similar channel is not available on GOES satellite. In addition, channel number 1 and 2 are having 1 km spatial resolution. Therefore, product can be generated at 1 km resolution. 4) It runs automatically, without human intervention. It is straightforward, computationally frugal, and thus easy for the user to understand exactly how the product is generated. Snow has strong visible reflectance and strong short-wave IR absorbing characteristics. The Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) is an effective way to distinguish snow from Snow depth INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 120 many other surface