this document is to present a conceptual framework and algorithm for retrieving cloud properties such as cloud top temperature, cloud top pressure and effective cloud amount from CO2 absorption and window channels of INSAT-3D/3DR sounder. This document also describes the validation procedure. In this document some background and the methodology employed to derive the cloud top temperature/pressure and effective cloud amount is discussed. It mainly discusses the theoretical basis and practical aspects of the retrieval algorithm for cloud parameters from INSAT-3D/3DR sounder channels and outlines the intended validation approach with validation results. 10.2.1. Overview and background The cloud properties such as cloud cover, cloud height etc. are very important for various climate and weather applications. The clouds at different heights affects weather and climate phenomenon in different ways. 10.2.2. Objective The main objective of this document is to provide the theoretical basis for deriving cloud top pressure/ cloud top temperature and effective cloud amount from INSAT-3D/3DR sounder channels. The proposed algorithm will be applied to retrieve cloud properties from sounder channels over a Field of Regard (FOR) of 5x5 sounder pixels defined as confidently cloudy from sounder cloud mask output. The algorithm has no limitation based on geographical location, therefore, can be applied to generate products at any geographical location. Version Date Prepared by Description 1.0 01.01.2015 M. V. Shukla, and P. K. Thapliyal Cloud properties are useful for weather prediction applications. INSAT-3D Incremental ATBD (MMDRPS), November 2018 110 10.3. Inputs 10.3.1. Static Data Parameter Resolution Accuracy Source Land/sea flag ~2 km x 2 km -- Global topographic data Surface Elevation 10 km x 10 km -- Global topographic data Monthly mean spectral surface Emissivity 10 km x 10 km -- Univ. of Wisconsin 10.3.2. Sounder data (dynamic) 10.3.3. Other Auxiliary data and Model Inputs In addition to Sounder data,