(LSA) is a key geophysical parameter controlling the energy budget in land–atmosphere interactions (Dickinson, 1983). LSA varies spatially and evolves seasonally based on solar illumination conditions, rainfall, soil moisture, vegetation growth, snow accumulation/melting and anthropogenic activities. Satellite remote sensing can provide a vantage point for estimating land surface albedo at various spectral, spatial, temporal, and angular resolutions. During the last few decades, many satellite-generated albedo products have been derived with varying spatial resolution of 500 m to 20 km. Many researchers across the globe have developed algorithms for various sensors to derive albedo directly from satellite observations. The AVHRR algorithm provides global coverage of albedo products (Strugnell & Lucht, 2001). POLDER and MISR allow researchers to use multi-angular information to obtain a better understanding of surface reflectance anisotropy (Diner et al., 1999; Leroy et al., 1997). The Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) albedo product (Schaaf et al., 2002) utilizes multiple spectral bands to derive accurate broadband albedo estimations at both high spatial and high temporal resolutions. Clouds and the Earth’s Radiant Energy System (CERES) uses broad shortwave band to derive the planetary albedo (Rutan et al., 2006). With the development and availability of geostationary satellite sensors, many researchers have focused on deriving the diurnal changes of surface albedo based on a much wider range of solar illumination angles, such as the Meteosat/SEVIRI albedo product (Geiger et al., 2008; Pinty et al., 2000). INSAT-3D Incremental ATBD (MMDRPS), November 2018 36 3.3. Theoretical background The conventional methods for estimating broadband albedos rely on a series of steps in the processing chain, including atmospheric correction, surface angular modelling, and narrowband- to-broadband albedo conversions. Unfortunately, errors associated with each procedure may be accumulated and significantly impact the accuracy of the final albedo products (Liang, 2003). Uncertainties associated with each procedure may be accumulate and