attenuating solar radiation while reaching earth surface. It is accountable for 70% depletion of solar radiation depending on its type, distribution and ice-cloud proportioning of three- dimensional vertical structure. Moreover, aerosol acts as cloud condensation nucleii (CCN). The contribution of clouds towards diurnal variability of insolation is more than aerosol and atmospheric gases specially during monsoon season. Fog also plays an important role in attenuating solar radiation in the winter. The interaction of solar radiation with atmospheric constituents and clouds is shown in Figure 1. Surface insolation over land INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 338 Figure 1: Interaction of incident solar radiation (irradiance) with major atmospheric agents for its depletion in clear and cloudy skies Surface insolation is the driving input for eco-physiological processes such as evapotranspiration (Jacobs et al, 2000) and photosynthesis (Chen et al, 1999). The trapped energy through formation of ATP and NADPH in ‘light reaction’ is utilized in the ‘dark reaction’ of photosynthesis to produce carbohydrates. The photosynthetic response of plant species to different light intensity determines primary productivity, therefore, it is as critical component to assess bio-energy and bio-fuel resources. Insolation is the major contributor of earth’s radiation and energy budget. It is also a crucial input to crop simulation model for yield forecasting. In climate change adaptation and mitigation strategies, use of renewable energy resources such as solar energy plays important role to maintain a emission-free green and safe environment. Monthly solar radiation maps on spatial scale are very important to locate solar energy conversion systems such as solar PV or thermal power plants (Janjai et al, 2005). Conventionally, these maps are constructed from high density network of pyranometers. However, in India, a very sparse network of pyranometer stations is presently operating. Interpolation from such sparse network produces large errors (60- 70%) due to