is obtained through three basic measurements: 1) the satellite range above the sea surface derived from the altimeter, 2) the tropospheric range delay measured by the radiometer to correct the altimeter range, 3) the altitude of the satellite above the reference ellipsoid derived from precise orbit determination. SARAL/AltiKa Products Handbook Iss :1.2 - date : December 12, 2011 13 Figure 2. Geometry of the sea surface height measurement by altimetry The altimeter uses radar pulses to determine precisely the distance between the satellite and the ocean surface by measuring the time taken by the emitted pulse to return. The shape and the amplitude of the echo enable the estimation of wave height and wind speed respectively. Geophysical corrections are then applied to compensate for the measurement errors introduced by propagation through the troposphere and ionosphere and errors induced by sea state. Further information and details about radar altimetry principles and processing can be found on the following link : http://www.altimetry.info/html/alti/welcome_en.html 2.6. Satellite Description The 450 kg satellite consists of a SSB/ IMS-2 platform and a SARAL/AltiKa specific payload module. The platform provides all housekeeping functions including propulsion, electrical power, command and data handling, telecommunications, and attitude control. The payload module provides mechanical, electrical, thermal, and dynamical support to the SARAL/AltiKa instruments. The SARAL satellite is mainly composed of: • a spacecraft bus IMS-2 (Small Satellite Bus). This platform, developed by ISRO, is designed for satellites in the range of about 500 kg at launch. • a payload developed by CNES. The SARAL payload (see Figure 3) includes the following components: SARAL/AltiKa Products Handbook Iss :1.2 - date : December 12, 2011 14 • An Altimeter, provided by CNES – the main mission instrument and a dual frequency microwave radiometer, provided by CNES – to correct the altimeter measurement for atmospheric