cloud life cycles. The spatio–temporal life cycle includes the generation, dissipation and assimilation of clouds that can be observed in a sequence of geostationary satellite images. During the 1970’s and early 1980’s, cloud motion winds were produced in major operational centers like NESDIS (National Environmental Satellite Data and Information Service) using a combination of automated and manual techniques. Early automated techniques supplied quality low-level vectors from mid-infrared channel but often yielded in consistent quality for mid- and high-level motions. Height assignment for the mid- infrared winds is done with collocated infrared images using infrared window technique. In the subsequent years, due to the developments in image-processing and pattern recognition techniques (Merill et al., 1991), it was possible to design fully automatic techniques for wind retrieval, and NESDIS began its application in 1992. In later time, several new developments were made to make accurate retrievals of winds from satellite images. Generally, atmospheric motion vectors (AMVs) wind coverage has been diurnally consistent in the mid to upper-levels (100-600 hPa) by the use of 6.7 μm water vapor and 10.7 μm long- Mid infra-red wind vectors INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 216 wave infrared (LWIR) channels. However, in the low-levels (600-950 hPa), AMVs are retrieved using a combination of the visible and LWIR channels, depending on the time of day. The visible channel provides far superior low-level tracer detection than the LWIR channel. This is due to its finer spatial resolution and decreased susceptibility to attenuation by low-level moisture. Unfortunately, nighttime low-level satellite wind coverage typically decreases sharply when visible channel is not available. This creates a situation of overall reduced wind information for the user during night-time. Using the mid-infrared (MIR) 3.9 μm channel on the INSAT-3D satellite, MIR cloud-drift winds have been developed to provide improved nighttime low-level satellite wind coverage.