2004), contrast ratio (Rosema et al, 2004) approaches applied to Meteosat. Heliosat model has been developed under Helioclim project of Europe and has undergone several revisions. It is based on deriving cloudiness index from maximum, minimum albedo in a time series and current albedo. This cloudiness index is converted into surface insolation through clearness index (ratio of surface insolation and insolation at-top-atmosphere) using pre-determined empirical relations. Physical modelling schemes of clear sky insolation are of two types: (i) ‘top-down’ approach that corrects incoming solar irradiance (Pinker and Lazlo, 1992; Lu et al, 2010) for atmospheric attenuation (absorption and scattering) before reaching the surface (ii) ‘bottom-up’ approach that determines surface albedo (Gautier et al, 1980) from planetary albedo by separating out atmospheric interferences and arrive at surface insolation through inversion. Several schemes are available to account for attenuation of solar radiation flux passing through clouds either using cloud top albedo or reflectivity that represents cloud backscatters or from combination of cloud-top albedo or temperature or cloud optical thickness and cloud-top pressure. Spectrally integrated irradiance model and three-layer cloudy scheme were implemented with Kalpana-1 VIS, WV and thermal IR bands to estimate instantaneous and daily insolation (Bhattacharya et al, 2012 and 2013). Statistical models are only based on visible band observations while physical model requires inputs from both visible and thermal bands in addition to determination of cloud mask. While the errors of statistical techniques varied from 12–17% for daily total insolation (Kandirmaz et al, 2004), the physical approach produces error of about ± 19% on hourly basis and lesser for daily to monthly averaging. Moreover, the statistical models call for region- specific updates of coefficients through ground datasets which are time consuming. 20.2.2 Objectives The objectives of this document are : (i) To outline a physical algorithm for surface insolation estimation