244 Temperature, Moisture Profile and Total Ozone from Sounder INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 245 16. Retrieval of Atmospheric Profiles Of Temperature, Humidity And Ozone 16.1 Algorithm configuration information 16.1.1 Algorithm name: Atmospheric Profiles Retrieval (ATMPROF) (Ref : IMD RFP Section 12.1 ) 16.1.2 Algorithm Identifier: 3DSND_L2B_SA1 3DSND_L2B_SB1 16.1.3 Algorithm Specification Version Date Prepared by Description 1.0 14.02.2007 P K Thapliyal, M V Shukla, C M Kishtawal and P K Pal ATBD for Atmospheric profiles retrieval from INSAT-3D Sounder 16.2 Introduction INSAT-3D will carry an 18-channel infrared Sounder (plus a visible channel) along with a 6 channel Imager. This algorithm is designed for retrieving vertical profiles of atmospheric temperature and moisture along with total column ozone content in the atmoshere from clear sky infrared radiances in different absorption bands observed through INSAT-3D. INSAT-3D Sounder channels are similar to those in GOES-12 Sounder and many of the spectral bands are similar to High resolution Infrared Radiation Sounder (HIRS) onboard NOAA-ATOVS. Hence, present algorithm for INSAT-3D Sounder is adapted from the operational HIRS and GOES algorithms developed by Cooperative Institute for Meteorological Satellite Studies (CIMSS), University of Wisconsin. This module also describes the background to retrieval problem, theoretical basis of the retrieval algorithm for vertical profiles, practical aspects of algorithm implementation, and outline of the planned validation approach. INSAT-3D Sounder instrument characteristics are given in the appendix-1 at the end. 16.2.1 Overview and Background: INSAT-3D Sounder observations will provide vertical profiles of temperature and humidity in clear-sky conditions besides total column ozone and various other derived products. Atmospheric profile retrieval algorithm for INSAT-3D Sounder is a two-step approach. The first step includes generation of accurate hybrid first guess profiles using combination of statistical regression retrieved profiles and model forecast profiles. The second step is nonlinear physical retrieval to improve the resulting first