microwave etc.). Physical explanation of rainfall with infrared (IR) images have been discussed previously which is common for GPI algorithm. In addition the Physical explanation of rainfall with visible (vis) images is being presented here in brief. Various researches so far have pointed that that with thicker clouds the probability of rainfall and rain intensity is increased. This relationship is strongest for clouds warmer than -15° C. It is also noted that marine clouds produce heavier rainfall. The possible explanation for this lies in the process of cloud growth and droplet growth rates. In clouds warmer than -15° C, precipitation results from coalescence. The large cloud thickness allows more time for growth before droplets fall out of the cloud. However, the other factors like droplet concentration, evaporation and cloud temperature are also important. Difference in precipitation probability between marine and continental clouds Sea surface temperature INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 56 were attributed to difference in concentration of condensation nuclei and of droplets, and difference in evaporation below the cloud base. Satellite passive microwave and more recently, active microwave rain radar are able to provide accurate estimation of rain rates. However they are known to have but poor temporal sampling. Again the estimates from polar orbiting satellites are subject to the bias in regions where diurnal cycle of rainfall is pronounced. Still the instantaneous measurements of rainfall from microwave sensors are more accurate and thus are useful in calibrating other sensors like visible and IR. At present, the algorithms for the quantitative estimation of rainfall from microwave observations are quite successful but suffer from a scarcity of sufficient verification data over the oceans. Theoretical and empirical studies addressing the problem of rain retrieval and their critical assessment continues to appear. A definitive algorithm is contnuously in developing stage because of