by the ATBD review committee, a part of their work with analysed chlorophyll fields are also included here. Monthly analysed chlorophyll for the global ocean has been generated by SAC at 25 km resolution using multi-satellite derived chlorophyll and TOPAZ model for the duration 1998 to 2015 and is provided to CA for their study. Seasonally varying compensation depth have been computed for the Indian Ocean using the OTTM (Ocean Tracer Transport Model) model and analyzed Chlorophyll-a provided by SAC and is shown in Figure 13. Compensation depth is then used for computing export production for the Indian Ocean. Figure 13: Seasonal mean of varying compensation depth (1998-2015) using analysed chlorophyll data from SAC 4.0 Limitations: The algorithm, as mentioned depends on the quality of the chlorophyll data simulation, observation (OCM-3 derived chlorophyll) and the sampling method adopted for generating multiple ensembles. Additionally, the model is not currently forward-integrated with the improved initial conditions of chlorophyll. 4.1 Future Aspect: The algorithm used here is to generate analysed ocean surface chlorophyll. A fully fledged data assimilation scheme, which sequentially incorporates the modified model fields into the model future projections is planned as future work. The possibility of assimilating Bio-Argo measured chlorophyll and the use of the optimal Interpolation technique to generate analysed chlorophyll fields for the global ocean will also be explored. 4.2 Potential Users of the data: One of the highlight of the analysed CHL products is the gap-free data for the global ocean. This analysed CHL products are beneficial for studies related to biogeochemistry, PFZ, carbon export, time series analysis, distribution of chlorophyll in the ocean, interaction of eddies and chlorophyll, etc. Some of the expected end-users of this product are INCOIS, SSPU, NIO, etc 4. REFERENCES:  Evensen, G. (2009). Data assimilation: the ensemble Kalman filter. Berlin: Springer.