population occurs as a result of convective processes. Understanding rainfall and its variability will contribute significantly to making reliable monsoon forecast. In addition, the knowledge of precipitation as one of the initial state of the atmosphere is necessary in weather prediction for physical initialization of numerical models. For years the need for diabetic initialization of precipitation in numerical models is being fulfilled by the infrared measurements by polar and geostationary satellites, since IR/VI measurements are continuously available with larger viewing areas and high resolution. Microwaves can penetrate clouds and to some extent rain, and thus provide another source for rainfall estimation over both land and oceans. Over the years, passive microwave (PM) instruments on earth orbiting platforms have been providing valuable information for precipitation estimation. The applications that benefited from microwave rainfall estimates include weather forecasting, climate analysis, and hydrological studies. The successful use of PM-based rain estimates in applications from various fields encourages the continuation of efforts toward the development of more advanced rain retrieval algorithms, despite obvious limitations associated with the low sampling frequency of orbiting platforms carrying PM sensors. The recent availability of detailed precipitation observations jointly obtained by the first space-borne precipitation radar (PR) and a multifrequncy passive microwave radiometer, the TRMM Microwave Imager (TMI), on NASA-USA and NASDA-Japan’s Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission (TRMM) satellite offers an excellent opportunity for studying such issues. It can also supplement the observations from the IR/VIS measurements if properly integrated/unified and brings out the finer details than any one alone. 2.2.1 Overview and Background: Measurement of Rain by Space-Based Methods: VIS/IR Measurements of Rain : Digital image data from polar orbiting and geostationary meteorological satellites with synoptic coverage and quasi-continuous sampling in time have now become the major tools for attempts to monitor rainfall from space. The most common and