yield. The climatic moisture index (ratio of rainfall and PET) is essential to know surface wetness and suitability of sowing or transplanting operations. Potential evapotranspiration INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 310 Therefore, it has the relevance for national agro-advisory services to farmers as well as crop forecasting. 19.2.1 Overview and background The latent heat of vaporization, which is the energy required for evaporating water is significant in weather and climate dynamics (Priestley & Taylor, 1972; Monteith,1973; Rowntree, 1991; Anderson et al., 2007). Although the concept of “evaporation” has been known since approximately 500 B.C. (see Brutsaert, 1982 for a chronological sketch), most of the understanding of the governing factors has been achieved in the last two centuries. Dalton (1802) was the first who proposed relationship of vapor pressure deficit (esat−eact) of the near surface air to the evaporation rate. Later, many empirical relationships were developed based on other environmental factors (Blaney and Criddle, 1950; Hargreaves, 1975; Thornthwaite, 1948). Based on available energy considerations and turbulent flux theory, Penman (1948) developed his evaporation equation for natural surfaces for water non-limiting conditions. This is known as potential evapotranspiration (PET). Monteith (1964) developed a modified version of the Penman equation in which biophysics was introduced through a surface or canopy resistance – the now well-known Penman–Monteith (P-M) combination equation – that allowed for vegetation control on transpiration rates. Choudhury (1997) proposed a method to assess by means of satellite data, such as remotely sensed solar radiation, air temperature (derived from infrared images and weather station measurements) and vapor pressure deficit. This method provides good evapo-transpiration estimates for low-resolution applications such as worldwide scale and monthly time step. The accuracy is limited by the high uncertainties provided by satellite- sensed vapor pressure estimation. Later, Bois et al. (2008) used remotely sensed solar radiation from