properties etc.) and associated parameters estimation are the important but grey areas of research and can be accomplished fully only with the R&D efforts and experience in the field. In addition the GMSRA, however, is a highly specific to US regions particularly with very large spatial and temporal coverage’s of the background data of Doppler Weather Radars (as a dominant characteristics of the algorithm) along with the satellite data. In case of GMSRA, some of the efforts are highly innovative (optical and cloud microphysics) and as mentioned earlier we have proposed to alternatively apply some some advanced elements in our proposed IMSRA algorithm, so that the method is more prone to Indian tropical regions. However, the advanced approach suggested here to use microwave information from most recent satellites like low/polar orbiting TRMM/SSM/I to augment thermal IR rainfall measurements along with VIS and WV channels from Geostationary satellite would also require large R & D efforts. 4.8 Future Scope Due to the heterogeneity of precipitation over the Earth’s surface it is important that corrections be applied time to time to the algorithms depending on region specific processes. Conventional means are restricted primarily to certain-land regions, and although satellite measurements are now commonly available, these have limitations too. Frequent observations from visible (VIS) and infrared (IR) sensors are hindered by the fact that estimates of precipitation are indirect and therefore prone to errors caused by cloud-top to surface rainfall variations. More direct measurements of precipitation through the use of passive microwave (PMW) instruments are somewhat restricted due their relative infrequent sampling of precipitation. Thus the algorithms for merging of microwave data with IR images to generate rainfall rates at the spatial and temporal resolutions of the IR sensor is highly desirable. The combined approaches can improve rainfall estimates using the temporal sampling