of rainfall products using rain gauges and Doppler Weather Radar data. 5 . Inter-satellite comparison using other contemporary satellites like Meteosat, NOAA etc. 6. Estimation of rainfall on pentad, monthly mean, seasonal mean and annual mean scales after due calibration/validation from radar and inter-satellite comparisons as above, rainfall. A2. To Develop Precipitation Estimates Using the Multispectral Rainfall Algorithm (IMSRA) Technique: The relation between precipitation amount and cloud fraction as seen from satellite passive radiometers in case of GPI technique above, though simple and straightforward it might seem, has not yet reached completely satisfactory accuracy, effectiveness, and time/space coverage. There are numerous applications in meteorology and hydrology where accurate information at scales smaller than the existing 1.0 products (e.g. daily or sub daily estimates at resolutions of 1 and down to the 0.10 0 and pixel scales) would be invaluable. There is also increasing demand from the meteorology and climate community for such products over extended periods. High-resolution rainfall information is available for limited areas using combinations of ground-based radar and dense networks of rain gauges. In India in particular, where the need of high spatial and temporal rainfall is essential, for large and varied areas of India (Western Ghats, plateaus, Himalayan Regions, North-Eastern Regions, Arid and Semi-Arid Zones) however, the in-situ infrastructure necessary for this form of precipitation monitoring network is not in place. Recent developments mostly refer to microwave (MW) sensors on board polar orbiters, but the use of visible (VIS) and infrared (IR) sensors of geostationary satellites for a variety of applications is by no means over. Thus a suit of both supplementing each others would be the ideal situation, particularly when the highly advanced microwave sensors data from various international satellites are available on near real time basis. The main objectives here in IMSRA algorithm are to