the hemispheres and is partially attributed to the sparse observations of OCM-3 in those regions and the bootstrapping sampling used in the study. While sampling, all the model points are altered adding random biases to the background filed. These particles are then compared with OCM-3 chlorophyll data to select strong particles as mentioned in the methodology section. Therefore, quantity and quality of OCM-3 observations play crucial role in the generation of more accurate analysed fields of chlorophyll. OCM- 3 shows a positive bias all over the ocean with respect to multi-satellite chlorophyll data. Figure 7: Chlorophyll from various sources averaged over the period 15 Oct to 22 Oct 2023. a) Coupled model chlorophyll, (b) Analysed Chlorophyll, c) OCM-3 derived Chlorophyll, and d) Merged product from multi satellites. Figures 8 and 9 show mean and standard deviation of chlorophyll from different sources. It is very vivid from the figures that assimilation of OCM- 3 data improved model simulations of chlorophyll. Analysed fields of chlorophyll is more close to chlorophyll observations from multi-satellite as compared to model simulations of chlorophyll and OCM-3 derived chlorophyll. The features of wind-driven upwelling induced chlorophyll concentrations in the western Arabian are enhanced in the analysed chlorophyll fields due to OCM-3 integration compared to chlorophyll simulations from coupled model without OCM-3 data. Figure 8: Mean of the ocean surface chlorophyll: a) Coupled model chlorophyll, b) Analysed Chlorophyll, c) OCM-3 derived Chlorophyll, and d) Chlorophyll from multi satellites. Figure 9: Standard deviation of the ocean surface chlorophyll: a) Coupled model chlorophyll, b) Analysed Chlorophyll, c) OCM-3 derived Chlorophyll, and d) Chlorophyll from multi satellites 3.7.2 Comparison with Bio-Argo data Independent validation of the analysed chlorophyll and merged chlorophyll from multi-satellites has been conducted using Bio-Argo measurements. Bio- Argo is an extension of the Argo program, incorporating biogeochemical observations,