1 SPACE APPLICATIONS CENTRE AHMEDABAD 380015 DOCUMENT CONTROL SHEET Reference No. SAC/EPSA/AMHTDG/HTDD/ATBD-01 Publication Date 19 March 2021 Title and Subtitle Aerosol Optical Depth (AOD) Retrieval from Ocean Colour Monitor (OCM-2) onboard OceanSat-2 Type of Report Algorithm Theoretical Basis Document (ATBD) (version-1.1) No. of Pages 29 No. of Figures 10 Authors Manoj K. Mishra Originating Unit Space Applications Centre, Ahmedabad. Abstract This Algorithm Theoretical Basis Document (ATBD) describes the algorithm used to retrieve the Aerosol Optical Depth (AOD) for the OCM-2 instrument onboard OceanSat-2 a polar-orbiting platform. Specifically, this document identifies the sources of input data, both OCM-2 data and non-OCM-2 data, required for retrieval; provides the physical theory and mathematical background underlying the use of this information in the retrievals; includes implementation details; and describes assumptions and limitations of the proposed algorithm. Keywords Aerosol optical depth, Fine mode fraction, Transmittance, Path radiance, Spectral response function. Security Classification Restricted Distribution Statement Limited to TEC committee members only. 2 Summary Existing aerosol algorithms providing aerosol information over land take advantage of measurement in narrow bands falling in the wide spectral range from 0.4 to 2.5 µm or of polarization/multi-angle viewing capabilities or both. Most of the ISRO’s space-borne sensors only partially fulfil the mentioned capabilities. As far as the requirement of narrow multiple channels in the visible region, and radiometric quality of the measurement is concerned, Ocean Colour Monitor (OCM-2) on-board OceanSat-2 seems to be a good choice, however, spectral coverage in OCM-2 is only up to 0.865 µm, which omitted the idea of aerosol remote sensing over land with existing algorithm. For this reason, to date OCM-2 was limited to ocean colour applications only. This Algorithm Theoretical Basis Document (ATBD) describes a novel algorithm for remote sensing of aerosol over land using spectral reflectance observed by OCM-2. The algorithm retrieves the