on a series of steps in the processing chain, including atmospheric correction, surface angular modelling, and narrowband- to-broadband albedo conversions. Unfortunately, errors associated with each procedure may be accumulated and significantly impact the accuracy of the final albedo products (Liang, 2003). Uncertainties associated with each procedure may be accumulate and may have bearing on final output. An alternative scheme developed in the earlier studies (Liang et al., 1999, 2003) linked TOA (top- of-atmosphere) narrowband albedos with three land surface broadband albedos using a feedforward neural network without performing any atmospheric corrections. This idea stems from earlier study (Pinker et al., 1985) that linearly related TOA and surface broadband albedos. Surface broadband albedo depends on surface spectral reflectance as well as atmospheric conditions. TOA observations contain information on both surface reflectance and atmospheric optical properties, which implies that it is possible for us to compute the broadband albedos using TOA narrowband albedos without performing any atmospheric corrections. Liang et al. (1999) used the MODTRAN model to simulate TOA reflectances under the Lambertian assumption, and they obtained a relationship between MODIS TOA reflectances and broadband albedos by using a neural network method. Liang et al. (2003) used the projection pursuit regression method. However, these two studies did not consider the anisotropy of the land surface. Liang et al. (2005) further improved it for estimating daily land surface albedo of the Greenland ice sheet from MODIS data. They used the discrete ordinates radiative transfer program for a multilayered plane parallel medium to simulate TOA reflectances of snow/ice and then developed the relationship between bidirectional TOA reflectances and broadband albedos using an empirical training method; they divided the solar/view geometry space into angular bins and calculated the regression coefficients of each angular bin using a linear regression method. Qu et al. (2015) have provided