to less atmospheric attenuation and surface reflectance is deduced from the composite using radiative transfer. The method is applied to GOES-8 imagery over the eastern US. Retrieved surface reflectance is compared with separate retrievals using a priori ground based observations of aerosol optical depth. 10.4.1.1 Theoretical Background The INSAT-3DR imager data will be used to perform the surface reflectance and aerosol optical depth retrievals and mask for clouds. It measures top of the atmosphere (TOA) radiance in six channels: three at infrared wavelengths, one in the visible wavelength and one sensitive to both solar and Earth-emitted radiance. Primarily, the visible channel (0.52–0.72 mm full width at half maximum) is sensitive to aerosol scattering and remaining channels are used for cloud masking. The cloud mask algorithm is based on the Clouds from the Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) (CLAVR) algorithm (Stowe et al. 1999) which uses spectral and spatial thresholds to test for the presence of clouds. The retrieval of aerosol information from INSAT-3DR imager data is a 3-step process: 1) Cloud masking 2) Composite the visible images to estimate the surface reflectance, and 3) Use the surface reflectance with an image to retrieve the aerosol optical depth. These steps are described below. Cloud Masking of INSAT-3DR Imager data Clouds are generally characterized by higher reflectance and lower temperature than the underlying earth surface. As such, simple visible and infrared window threshold approaches offer considerable skill in cloud detection. Following threshold-based tests will be performed to detect the cloudy pixels. a) Visible band threshold test The reflectance threshold test using visible band of INSTA-3D/3DR. Pixels with visible channel reflectance greater than 0.3 over land and greater than 0.10 over ocean are considered cloudy. b) TIR Brightness temperature threshold test Aerosol Pixels with brightness temperature in TIR1 channel less than 273