Prepared by Description 3.0 V. Sathiyamoorthy Bipasha Paul Shukla ATBD for top of atmosphere radiance-to-flux computation 5.2 Introduction An understanding of the radiation budget of the earth is fundamental because the weather/climate system is a heat engine, with absorbed solar radiation being the energy source and Earth-emitted radiation being the energy sink necessary to drive the system. Earth Radiation Budget studies are of paramount importance in the context of global climate change. The delicate balance of the incoming and the outgoing radiation, which is being disturbed by anthropogenic activities, mark their signatures in the top of atmosphere radiation budget quantities. Top of atmosphere radiation budget quantities can be estimated from satellites using well- calibrated broadband radiometers. Scanner for Radiation Budget (ScaRaB) onboard Megha-Tropiques is a 4-channel cross-track scanning radiometer. The four channels include two broad spectral bands (Channel-2 and Channel-3) from which the reflected shortwave and emitted longwave radiances are derived and two narrow bands (Channel-1 and Channel-4) one corresponding to the infrared atmospheric window, other to the visible (green to red) portion of the solar spectrum (Table.1). Purpose of keeping the two narrow band channels are: (i) R&D activities and (ii) estimate the errors associated with the narrow band to broad band extrapolations. Table-1 ScaRaB Channels Channel No. Description Wavelength Range 1 Visible (VIS) 0.55 - 0.65 m 2 Solar (SW) 0.2 – 4.0 m 3 Total (T) 0.2 – 100 m 4 IR Window (IR) 10.5 – 12.5m Satellite measurement of the earth–atmosphere radiations are usually confined to certain local times and specific directions of view depending on orbital constraints Megha-Tropiques ATBD Ver 3.0 56 and instrument scanning capabilities. Due to the smaller spatial view of the ScaRaB, only limited angular coverage is possible by each observation. In the case of ScaRaB, the direct measurement is radiance while