sounding instrument in geostationary orbit was the GOES VISSR Atmospheric Sounder (VAS, Smith et al. 1981) launched in 1980. This was followed by GOES-8 Sounder (Menzel and Purdom, 1994) that provides 8 km spatial resolution with 18 infrared sounding channels. Current satellite of this series, GOES-13, is launched recently in May 2006. Future satellite GOES-R of this series to be launched in 2012 will have a Hyperspectral Environmental Suite (HES) to provide high spectral resolution in the infrared and a high spatial resolution mode for mesoscale sounding capability. Advanced Baseline Imager (ABI) onboard GOES-R will be similar to the current polar orbiting EOS-MODIS. NASA and NOAA are planning to launch Geostationary Imaging Fourier Transform Spectrometer (GIFTS) that will revolutionize our ability to measure, understand and predict the earth- atmosphere system. 16.2.3 Objective Objective of the present module is to describe the algorithms and different aspects associated with the retrieval of temperature, humidity profiles and total column ozone from INSAT-3D Sounder observation in 18 infrared spectral bands. Present document also outlines the validation plan for the retrieved atmospheric profiles. 16.3 Inputs 16.3.1 Static Data Parameter Resolution Accuracy Source Land/sea flag ~2 km x 2 km -- Global topographic datasets (Available) Surface Elevation Each Pixel 10 km x 10 km -- Global topographic datasets (Available) Monthly mean spectral surface Emissivity Each Pixel 10 km x 10 km -- Univ. of Wisconsin (Available) Global training dataset for temperature and humidity (Radiosonde/ Analysis Profiles) Surface to 0.01 hPa levels -- Univ. of Wisconsin/ IMD (Available) Global training dataset for ozone profile (Ozonesonde) Surface to 0.01 hPa levels -- Univ. of Wisconsin/ IMD (Available) 16.3.2 Sounder data: Parameter Resolution Quantization Accuracy Source Radiometric and Geometric corrected gray count values of Each Pixel 12-bit -- Derived from raw Temperature, Moisture Profile and Total Ozone from Sounder