complete description of radiances at the top of the atmosphere. Upper tropospheric humidity INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 236 15.4.2.1 Radiative Transfer Model SBDART (Santa Barbara DISORT Atmospheric Radiative Transfer) model developed by Ricchiazzi et al (1998) at University of California will be used for INSAT-3A/Kalpana and INSAT-3D VHRR radiance simulations. SBDART is designed for the analysis of a wide variety of radiative transfer problems encountered in satellite remote sensing and atmospheric energy budget studies. SBDART is based on a collection of highly developed and reliable physical models developed by the atmospheric science community. A brief description to the key components of the model are discussed below: Cloud Model: Clouds are a major modulator of the earth’s climate by reflecting visible radiation and intercepting part of the infrared radiation emitted by the Earth and re- radiating it back to the surface. The computation of radiative transfer within a cloudy atmosphere requires knowledge of the scattering efficiency, the single scattering albedo, and the asymmetry factor, which indicates the strength of forward scattering. SBDART contains an internal database of these parameters for clouds computed with a Mie scattering code and covers a range of particle size effective radius in the range 2 to 128um. By default, the angular distribution of scattered photons is based on the simple Henyey-Greenstein parameterization, but more detailed scattering functions may be input as desired. Gas Absorption Model: Standard SBDART uses low-resolution band models developed for the LOWTRAN 7 atmospheric transmission code (Pierluissi and Marogoudakis, 1986). These models provide the clear sky atmospheric transmisson from 0 to 50000 cm-1 and include the effects of all radiatively active molecular species found in the earth's atmosphere. The models were derived from detailed line-by-line calculations, which were degraded to 20 cm-1 resolutions for use in LOWTRAN. This translates to a wavelength