N = 64 points). Advantage here is that several parameters can be retrieved simultaneously. To mathematically solve SA equation, spectral models for the three IOPs (i.e., aph(λ), acdm(λ), and bbp(λ)) must be known. To define spectral absorption of CDOM+detritus (CDM), exponential decay function is used which depends on spectral slope “S” whereas, particle backscattering is defined in terms of a power-law function of wavelength that depends on exponent “η.” On the other hand, phytoplankton absorption is spectrally defined in terms of its specific absorption coefficient, which may vary based on community structure and pigment composition. Therefore, complete formulation of a SA algorithm requires certain model parameters to be hardcoded. However, these parameters show a nonlinear behavior and vary on a global scale. Accuracy of the algorithm, therefore, depends on the accuracy with which parameters such as specific absorption coefficient of phytoplankton (a∗ph(λ)), spectral slope “S” and exponent “η” are defined. If the model parameters are accurate, SA algorithm performs well even in Case-2 waters, where optically active constituents modify the light field independently. To use the model for any set of wavelengths, major difficulty arises in parametrization of a∗ph(λ) (Maritorena et al., 2002). Many researchers have expressed a∗ph(λ) as a representative spectrum for doing the inversion„ whereas the coefficient is widely known for its variability. A general representation of a∗ ph(λ) should account for its variations due to community structure shifts, pigment composition, package effect, and irradiance level (Bricaud et al., 1995; Fujiki et al., 2002). Therefore, there is a need to fine-tune the existing SA algorithms in order to account for the variations in specific absorption coefficient, which would allow the retrieval of bio-optical parameters (e.g., Chl-a) simultaneously in both Case-1 and Case-2 waters. One of the important parameters that affects the retrieval of bio-optical constituents, in optically complex