17.1.3. Algorithm specification Version Date Prepared by Description 1.0 Dr. Rahul Nigam and Dr. Bimal K. Bhattacharya Potential evapo- transpiration baseline document 17.2. Introduction The process of evapotranspiration (ET) acts as one of the main drivers of the hydrological or water cycle. One of the distinguishing factors of ET is its role as a key player between the energy and water cycles. The potential ET rate (ETo) is influenced by several factors such as solar radiation, wind speed, air temperature and vapour pressure deficit. Among them, solar radiation is the most sensitive parameter influencing almost 60-70% variability of ETo . The potential evapo- transpiration (PET), hereafter referred as grass reference evapo-transpiration (ETo), is expressed in terms of amount of water transferred per unit time to atmosphere from water non-limiting surface covered with a uniformly and actively growing short grass such as Alfalfa. ETo represents the evaporative demand of the atmosphere for a given climatic region. Deficiency in required supply of moisture leads to water stress. Reference evapo-transpiration is an agrometeorological variable widely used in hydrology and agriculture. Together with precipitation, it is a major input in soil water balance models. Several of these models require daily or hourly evapo-transpiration data to provide acceptable estimate of plants’ water requirements. This would provide regional water demand in different agro-climatic settings and agricultural growing season. The combination of spatial rainfall with ETo would help in monitoring water deficit and surplus during a growing season for rainfed agriculture. Some contours of monthly climatic ETo have been generated by Department of Agricultural Meteorology, IMD (India Meteorological Department) from measurements of limited surface observatories in India. But interpolation from such contours will propagate large errors. No digital map of ETo is available to scientific community, modelers, resource managers and planners in India. Moreover, real-time updated spatial