the upper and middle troposphere, and cold clouds that extend into lower troposphere. Physical explanation of rainfall with visible (vis) images In middle and late fifties and earlier sixties, various researches concluded that with thicker clouds the probability of rainfall and rain intensity is increased. This relationship is strongest for clouds warmer than -15° C. It is also noted that marine clouds produce heavier rainfall. The possible explanation for this lies in the process of cloud growth and droplet growth rates. In clouds warmer than -15° C, precipitation results from coalescence. The large cloud thickness allows more time for growth before droplets fall out of the cloud. However, the other factors like droplet concentration, evaporation and cloud temperature are also important. Difference in precipitation probability between marine and continental clouds were attributed to difference in concentration of condensation nuclei and of droplets, and difference in evaporation below the cloud base. Very high droplet concentrations (> 400 cm3) inhibit coalescence and formation of rain. The evaporation of raindrops is proportional to saturation vapor deficit and fall period. Both droplet concentration and subcloud moisture and thickness are more variable over land than over water. Temperature governs various processes. At temperature  -10° C growth of hydrometeors is dominated by sublimation and collisions involving ice particles; that is, by Wegener-Bergeron rather than coalescence processes. Less important factors influencing precipitation are condensation nuclei, updraft speed, and electrification. Thus cloud thickness, though important, is one of the several factors determining production of rain in the clouds. Various researchers have tried to related cloud thickness with satellite observed brightness. The contradictory claims are made. Some of them have found high correlation between two, where as others could not notice so encouraging results with their studies. It is concluded that cloud brightness alone cannot always imply cloud