and global rainfall patterns over both land and oceans. Fig. 2 Flow Diagrams showing the Concept of Rainfall Retrieval: 2.5.4 The inverse problem: In the last decade, there has been a growing interest in developing rain profile retrieval algorithms trained by cloud radiative databases (Smith et al.1994). This Megha-Tropiques ATBD Ver 3.0 18 approach is based upon the use of radiative transfer models applied to cloud- resolving hydrometeor profile outputs. The appeal to develop fast inversion algorithms using pre-generated physically consistent cloud radiative databases has been largely exploited for spaceborne microwave radiometry of rainfall (Mugnai 1988 et al. and Kummero et al. 1996). Following this approach, the accuracy of rainfall estimates are basically linked to the accuracy of both forward and inverse models. In particular, the reliability and consistency of the various radiative transfer models, used for building retrieval databases, is a crucial problem to be investigated within this framework. As indicated, the simulations will be carried out as a reference bench mark for the proper selection of channels and their combinations. The real data base would be the collocated matched data base of TBs and ground based rainfall measurements. Regarding empirical approach, a matched data sets of the MADRAS radiometric observations will be attempted in conjunction with the ground based observations from rain gauges, Doppler Weather Radars (DWR) etc. There are a couple of empirical approaches that could be attempted for the retrievals. These are simple multiple regressions between the rainfall and the brightness temperatures from MADRAS channels. Other methods are based on the SI, PCT and D approaches mentioned above section which are highly applicable for the rainfall retrievals. In order to demonstrate the applicability of empirical approaches, the existing data of TRMM radar and radiometric observations will be utilized and compared with the standard TRMM products of