for those pixel where surface reflectance is less than critical reflectance. Thus, false retrievals such as AOD retrieval over very bright surface (like desert or bare arid soil surfaces or high reflecting urban setups) are reduced/masked. f) Current algorithm gives AOD product at 550 nm. The output product description is summarized in Table 1. Specifically, this document identifies the sources of input data, both INSAT-3D/3DR imager and non- INSAT- 3D/3DR imager data, required for retrieval; provides the physical theory and mathematical background underlying the use of this information in the retrievals; includes implementation details; and describes assumptions and limitations of the proposed approach. Table 1: Summary of Aerosol Optical Depth (AOD) product Parameter Name Units Horizontal Cell Size Comments Aerosol Optical depth at 550 nm Dimensionless 10.0 km for both Land and oceans Retrieved for all cloud free regions. 10.2.2 Objective The objective of this algorithm is to calculate the aerosol optical thickness, proportional to the total aerosol loading of the ambient aerosol, over both land and ocean for Indian region on a six times (6:00, 6:30, 7:00, 7:30, 8:00 and 8:30 UTC) daily basis. Retrievals are only performed for cloud free pixels during the daytime. The overall objectives of the INSAT-3D/3DR aerosol retrievals algorithm is to determine the aerosol optical thickness, at 550 nm and 10 km spatial resolution over both land and ocean surfaces with root mean square (RMS) error of ±0.20. Optical thickness retrievals apply only under clear and daytime conditions. Aerosol 10.3 Inputs 10.3.1 Static Data Parameter Resolution Source Digital elevation model (DEM) Relative Humidity climatology (monthly) 5.0 minutes 0.5 degree ETOPO5 NCEP Spectral Response Function (SRF) for Imager bands 1nm Sensor Group of Space Applications Centre, Ahmedabad 10.3.2 Image and preprocessing data (Dynamic) Parameter Resolution Quantization Accuracy Source Radiometric and geometric corrected radiance values of