and/or large raindrops. The brightness temperature depression will be converted to an expected rainfall rate through the retrieval scheme where databases of hydrometeor profiles (associated with a variety of rain systems) will be developed for different climatological zones. Recent results from TRMM indicate that the relationship of lightning flashes (which is highly correlated with the 85 GHz scattering signature) and rainfall varies over the global land regions. Development of profile databases for different climatological zones can account for regional differences. However, as a starting point, we will insure that these retrievals match closely with established algorithms developed for the SSM/I and TMI sensors. A further complication that arises over land is the lack of consistent backgrounds against which to compare the Tb depression. To alleviate this problem caused by the varying emissivity associated with changes in surface characteristics (e.g., surface wetness, snow cover, vegetation, etc.), a rain/no-rain temperature depression threshold is required. The “screening” issue has always been one of modest controversy in the land-based retrievals because of the empirical nature of their form. Intuitively, one immediately thinks that such screens will vary greatly with sensor. However, as is described later, these screens (i.e., Tb relationships separating rainfall from other surfaces) seem to hold valid for other sensors, with only minor modifications needed. Additionally, one school of thought in physical retrievals is that the rain rate retrieval becomes a two-step process: rain identification and rain rate determination. The basis for the retrieval over land comes from the work of Grody (1991), who developed a global scattering index (SI) at 85 GHz for use with the SSM/I sensor. Further refinement of the technique is described in Ferraro et al. (1994) and Ferraro et al. (1998). The rationale was to first develop a relationship which could Megha-Tropiques ATBD Ver 3.0 22 best