surface temperature INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 48 combinations of ground-based radar and dense networks of rain gauges. In India in particular, where the need of high spatial and temporal rainfall is essential, for large and varied areas of India (Western Ghats, plateaus, Himalayan Regions, North-Eastern Regions, Arid and Semi- Arid Zones) however, the in-situ infrastructure necessary for this form of precipitation monitoring network is not in place. Recent developments mostly refer to microwave (MW) sensors on board polar orbiters, but the use of visible (VIS) and infrared (IR) sensors of geostationary satellites for a variety of applications is by no means over. Thus a suit of both supplementing each others would be the ideal situation, particularly when the highly advanced microwave sensors data from various international satellites are available on near real time basis. The main objectives here in IMSRA algorithm are to estimate rainfall by developing a Multispectral Rainfall Algorithm which is an optimal combination of GMSRA and some of the innovative proposed approaches that utilizes microwave remote sensing measurements from polar orbiting satellites. Here, the rainfall algorithm is with more advantageous that combines satellite passive microwave and infrared (IR) data to account for limitations in both data types. Rainfall estimates are produced at the high spatial resolution and temporal frequency of the IR data using rainfall information from the PMW data. Over the last few years, a number of groups world wide have embarked on development of such techniques wherein the advantages of geosynchronous viz. vast coverage and near sufficient space- time sampling, and polar passive microwave radiometers viz. more physically based retrievals, are synergistically used to generate tropical rainfall on various scales (e.g. Adler et al. 1994, Todd et al. 2001, Gairola and Krishnamurti 1992). With above background the objectives for Multi Spectral Rainfall Algorithm (IMSRA)