between sea, air, soil, rock, plants and animals. The precipitation and evaporation processes significantly affect the global hydrological cycle. The quantitative assessment of precipitation is needed to improve understanding of the behavior of global energy and circulation patterns as well as the nature of climate variability. The choice of measured parameter has been influenced by the cost of installation, operation, longevity and temporal as well as spatial coverage of the instruments. The land based techniques of rainfall estimation are not sufficient for global rainfall assessment as about 70% of the Earth is covered with water. The space borne measurement and monitoring of rainfall is, therefore, a topic of major interest since they provide global coverage both on land and ocean for an extended period of time. A longstanding promise of meteorological satellites is the improved identification and quantification of precipitation at time scales consistent with the nature and development of precipitation processes. Meteorological satellites expand the coverage and time span of conventional ground-based rainfall data for a number of applications. The primary INSAT-3D Incremental ATBD (MMDRPS), November 2018 163 scope of satellite rainfall monitoring is to provide information on rainfall occurrence, amount and distribution over the regional to continental scales. The uneven distribution of rain gauges and weather radars and the relative lack of rainfall measurements over the oceans have significantly limited the use of global as well local data. Precipitation is one of the most variable quantities in space and time. Precipitation also has a direct impact on human life that other atmospheric phenomena seldom have: an example is represented by heavy rain events and flash floods (Barrett and Michell, 1991). Geostationary weather satellite visible (VIS) and infrared (IR) imagers provide the rapid temporal update cycle needed to capture the growth and decay of precipitating clouds. Microwaves provide the