practical aspects of the retrieval algorithm for cloud parameters from INSAT-3D imager channels and outlines the intended validation approach with validation results. The cloud properties such as cloud cover, cloud height etc. are very important for various climate and weather applications. The clouds at different heights affects weather and climate phenomenon in different ways. It is very difficult to imagine variety of weather phenomenon without clouds. Clouds do not only add beauty and variability in atmosphere but also cause the wide variety of atmospheric activities. Clouds vary in its appearance, extent, composition and physical properties, therefore, different clouds affect weather and climate differently. For example, rapidly growing cumulus clouds are precursor to sever thunderstorm, low water clouds with strong temperature inversion results in fog. Thin cirrus clouds do not play a critical role in short to medium range weather activities, but they play a very crucial role in earth’s heat budget and also helps in tracking upper level winds. Thin cirrus clouds are thin enough to allow incoming solar radiation to pass through it but doesn’t allow outgoing infrared radiation, thus increases the radiative energy and eventually leads to the warming of earth-atmosphere system. Cirrus clouds are crucially important to global radiative processes and the heat balance of the Earth; they allow solar heating while reducing infrared radiation to space. Models of climate changes will Version Date Prepared by Description 1.0 01.01.2015 M. V. Shukla, and P. K. Thapliyal Cloud properties are useful for weather prediction applications INSAT-3D Incremental ATBD (MMDRPS), November 2018 101 have to correctly simulate these clouds to have the proper radiative terms for the Earth's heat budget. Past estimates of the variation of cloud cover and the Earth's outgoing longwave radiation have been derived primarily from the longwave infrared window (10-12 µm) radiances observed from polar