optical depth (0.02 and 0.04 for ocean and land respectively) to estimate Lambertian surface reflectance (ρsurf). The image in figure (1) shows Lambartian surface reflectance computed using above mentioned method from INSAT-3D data from 4-31 December, 2013 and 4-31 January 2014 which is used for aerosol inversion on 1 January 2014 and 1 February 2014, respectively. Aerosol Figure 1. Shows Lambartian surface reflectance derived from clear composite method using INSAT-3D visible channel data (a) derived from data for the period of 4-31 December 2013. (b) Derived from data for the period of 4-31 January 2013. The accuracy of the composite depends on the length of time used to create it. For instance, enough cloud-free observations must exist with little aerosol influence for the surface reflectance to be accurate. Areas of persistent aerosol or cloud cover will be likely to have caused errors in the retrieved surface reflectance because the atmospheric component remains large in such situations. It is to be noted that in previous version of AOD retrieval algorithm (version1 an d 2), instead of minimizing Rayleigh corrected reflectance, the TOA radiance was minimized, therefore the effect of change in solar zenith angle during the period of previous 30 days decreases the accuracy of derived surface reflectance. Aerosol Optical Depth Retrieval The aerosol optical depth retrieval is performed using an INSAT-3D/3DR imager visible image and the retrieved surface reflectance (from the previous step). In this retrieval, the current day TOA reflectance is corrected for ozone and water vapour absorption and also corrected for Rayleigh reflectance. Then precomputed look tables (using 6S radiative transfer model) that consist spherical albedo, reflectance, transmittance as a function of sun-sensor geometry and aerosol optical thickness are used to simulate theoretical Rayleigh corrected reflectance which is then compared with observed Rayleigh corrected INSAT-3DR reflectance to obtained