systematic trends (Smirnov et al. 2002), surface observations of scattering show significant diurnal patterns (Bergin et al. 2001). It is required to understand aerosol plume movement to track and forecast plume movement in the interest of human health. Therefore, it is important to monitor the temporal aspects of aerosol. The INSAT-3DR imager data from geostationary platform has the potential to provide aerosol observations over land and ocean with multiple observations per day. Many studies have demonstrated the potential of Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite (GOES) series of imager sensors to provide quantitative estimates of aerosol optical (Knapp et al. 2002, Knapp et al. 2005). Their sensitivity studies, however, concluded that retrievals depend on aerosol optical property assumptions and surface reflectance. Studies using newer geostationary satellites (e.g. GOES-8) and larger validation networks (e.g. Aerosol Robotic Network—AERONET) supported those initial Aerosol findings. Specifically, Zhang et al. (2001) and Knapp et al. (2002) showed that aerosol monitoring from GOES is possible for South America. However, this region has optimal retrieval conditions: surface cover with little variability (i.e. rainforest) and large aerosol optical depths (from biomass burning). Studies by Knapp et al. (2005) have shown operational potential of GOES series of sensors for the monitoring of aerosol optical depth over land. A method is proposed by Knapp et al (2005) to correct surface effects and retrieve aerosol optical depth using visible reflectance measurements from the Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite (GOES). The surface contribution is determined from temporal compositing of visible imagery, where darker pixels correspond to less atmospheric attenuation and surface reflectance is deduced from the composite using radiative transfer. The method is applied to GOES-8 imagery over the eastern US. Retrieved surface reflectance is compared with separate retrievals using a priori ground based observations of aerosol optical depth. 10.4.1.1 Theoretical Background The INSAT-3DR imager