to NRT data TBD by ISRO 2.8.2. Access to off line data TBD by ISRO SARAL/AltiKa Products Handbook Iss :1.2 - date : December 12, 2011 34 2.9. Access to data via EUMETSAT 2.9.1. NRT data access Operational users requiring near real-time access (within a few hours of acquisition) can receive data via EUMETCast, which is the prime dissemination mechanism for EUMETSAT satellite data and meteorological products. EUMETCast is also used to deliver data supplied by several external data providers. EUMETCast is an environmental data and product dissemination system based on standard Digital Video Broadcast (DVB) technology. It uses commercial telecommunication geostationary satellites to broadcast data and products to a wide user community. EUMETSAT operates three EUMETCast broadcasts: EUMETCast Europe in Ku-band via Hotbird-6 EUMETCast Africa in C-band via AtlanticBird-3 and EUMETCast South America in C-band via NewSkies-806. The coverage zones of these broadcasts are shown in Figure below. The SARAL/AltiKa products are currently disseminated over all beams. Figure 11 : GEONETCast Coverage Zones EUMETCast is part of a wider data dissemination cooperation network known as GEONETCast, defined as a global network of satellite based data dissemination systems providing environmental data to a world-wide user community. The current partners within the GEONETCast initiative include the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) and EUMETSAT, as well as many prospective data provider partners. EUMETCast is a multi-service dissemination mechanism and other environmental data streams and products are also delivered via EUMETCast : • Space-based observations from the Meteosat, Metop, GOES, MT-SAT and FY2 satellites – at their most frequent, these data are delivered to Users within 5-minutes of processing • MODIS level 1and 2 products covering selective geographical regions • Numerical Weather Forecasts • In-situ observational data SARAL/AltiKa Products Handbook Iss :1.2 - date : December 12,