k=0 AkRk 21 σ0 rain = Σ 2 k=0 SkRk 22 where R (km.mm/hr) is integrated rain rate. The σ0 wind information is obtained from QSCAT-1 GMF for a known wind vector. Based on the above model, variations of atmospheric transmittance (τ=e-α) and lump rain backscatter varying with integrated rain rate, for horizontal and vertical polarizations, are depicted in figure (14). 29 Figure (14): Variation of atmospheric transmittance (solid lines) and lump rain backscatter (dotted lines) with integrated rain for Quikscat scatterometer It indicates that for both the polarizations, atmospheric transmittance nonlinearly decreases while lump rain backscatter nonlinearly increases with increasing rain rate. This empirical rain impact model is developed using simultaneously observed radar backscatter from Quikscat scatterometer, path integrated attenuation and rain rate profile from TRMM Precipitation Radar (PR), oceans surface wind vector from NCEP model analysis and the QSCAT-1 GMF. Development of such model specific to Oceansat-2 scatterometer will be essential in which radar backscatter data from Oceasat-2 scatterometer will be used along with rain and attenuation information from TRMM-PR and model wind data from ECMWF/NCEP. Prior to developing rain impact model, development of GMF specific to Oceansat-2 scatterometer will be necessary. The data requirements for rain impact model development are the same as reflected in table (3) with additional data of path-integrated attenuation from TRMM-PR. 6.2 Impact of rain on wind vector retrieval: The impact of rain is studied through wind vectors retrieved by the method mentioned above by using simulated radar backscatter under rainy conditions obtained through equation (20). The impact of rain is observed in terms of drastic changes in retrieved wind speed and direction as shown in figures (15). The retrieved wind speed 30 below and above 15 m/s are over- and under- estimated, respectively as seen in figure (15a), while retrieved directions are