the radiative effects of several common boundary layer and upper atmosphere aerosol types. In the boundary layer, the Upper tropospheric humidity INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 237 user can select from rural, urban, or maritime aerosols. The total vertical optical depth of boundary layer aerosols is derived from user specified horizontal meteorologic visibility at 0.55 µm and an internal vertical distribution model. In the upper atmosphere up to 5 aerosol layers can be specified, with radiative characteristics that model fresh and aged volcanic, meteoric and the climatological tropospheric background aerosols. The aerosol models included in SBDART were derived from those provided in the 5s and LOWTRAN7. Radiative Transfer Equation Solver: The radiative transfer equation is numerically integrated with DISORT (DIScreet Ordinate Radiative Transfer, Stamnes et al, 1988). The discrete ordinate method provides a numerically stable algorithm to solve the equations of plane-parallel radiative transfer in a vertically inhomogeneous atmosphere. The intensity of both scattered and thermally emitted radiation can be computed at different heights and directions. SBDART is configured to allow up to 65 atmospheric layers and 40 radiation streams (40 zenith angles and 40 azimuthal modes). Surface Models: The ground surface cover is an important determinant of the overall radiation environment. In SBDART six basic surface types -- ocean water, lake water, vegetation, snow and sand are used to parameterize the spectral reflectivity of the surface. The spectral reflectivity of a large variety of surface conditions is well approximated by combinations of these basic types. For example, the fractions of vegetation, water and sand can be adjusted to generate a new spectral reflectivity representing new/old growth, or deciduous vs. evergreen forest. Combining a small fraction of the spectral reflectivity of water with that of sand yields an overall spectral dependence close to wet soil. The diverse profiles datasets are