this scale mismatch will reduced with INSAT 3D. (iii) Difference in time sampling For spatial ETo, daily solar radiation was generated from diurnal observations at instantaneous snapshots with half-an-hour interval from satellite platform. But half-an- hourly averages from AMS measurements were used to generate validation datasets (iv) Accuracy in cloud flagging The product version of surface insolation algorithm has cloud detection capability of approximately 80%. It could not detect thinner clouds. Therefore, ETo estimates have higher errors during the period more cloudy spells or for AMS sites with higher cloud dynamics such as Diglipur (A & N), LPSC, Mahendragiri etc. Potential evapotranspiration INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 332 (v) Quality of WRF forecast An initial evaluation of WRF forecast quality showed an average error to the tune of 1- 2°C, RH of 5-10% as compared to large error in wind speed and predicted radiation terms. The inherent errors in first three variables will have implications on the overall error budget. 19.9 Future scope of improvement Recent improvement has taken place in the cloud detection of INSAT 3D insolation algorithm using additional criteria based on cloudiness index from VIS band observations. Much of the uncertainties in insolation and ETo estimates in cloudy-skies will hopefully be improved. Recent study on impact of updated vegetation fraction from INSAT 3A CCD showed improvement in air temperature, humidity and rainfall forecast from WRF. The use of real-time satellite based other land surface products such as albedo, LAI and soil moisture would definitely help in improving the quality of operational forecasts. Future work should address the retrieval / estimation of those variables from Indian geostationary satellites. The INSAT 3D will provide relatively finer spatial resolution of observation of insolation. This would reduce the scale mismatch uncertainty for validation. 19.10 References 1. Allen, R., Pereira, L., Raes,