digital image along with other information which are further used for data interpretation and other applications. Different communities use these data for their required purpose. To make it convenient to the users, standards are required to store these datasets. Many image file formats like GIF, PGM, BMP, JPEG etc. are available globally. These formats have an image header with fixed fields containing information such as image dimensions, color space specification, etc. However, these formats have no facility to store information related to geo-location of image pixels. They also do not support storage of cartographic data. Due to these limitations, a new format is required to store image data along with image geometry as well as cartographic information along with ancillary information required for further processing. The new format has to be platform independent, flexible and extensible. The Tagged Image File Format (TIFF) is one of the popularly available image formats. It is platform independent extensible. Several third party solutions exist for recording 3 cartographic information using TIFF tags. The specifications for these tags (fields) are available in TIFF-6.0 documents. These fields contain information ranging from the most primary, like image dimensions, over the most sophisticated information like copyright, up to so-called 'private tags' or 'custom tags' that can define to hold application-specific information. The TIFF specification defines a framework for an image header called 'IFD' (Image File Directory) that is essentially a flexible set of specifically those tags that the TIFF writer software wishes to specify. The TIFF file format can be used to store and digital satellite image data, scanned aerial photos, elevation models, scanned maps and the results of many types of geographic analysis. TIFF is the only full-featured format in the public domain, capable of supporting extension to include geographic metadata. GeoTIFF implements the geographic metadata formally,