effect of optical depth on the visible portion of the spectrum. For the SWIR bands, the droplet absorption increases INSAT-3D Incremental ATBD (MMDRPS), November 2018 124 approximately linearly with effective radius, and hence the asymptotic reflectance of a cloud decreases with increasing particle size. Thus the visible band contains information primarily regarding cloud optical thickness, whereas the absorbing bands eventually reach an optical thickness where they are primarily dependent on particle size alone. A combination of visible and shortwave-infrared absorbing bands therefore provides information on both optical thickness and effective radius. 11.6.3. Algorithm Overview To retrieve the cloud optical thickness (τc) and effective particle radius (re), a radiative transfer model was first used to compute the reflected intensity field. The values of the reflection function were stored for different combinations of cloud optical thickness and particle size at three geometrical angles in the form of a look-up-table. The determination of optical thickness and cloud effective radius from spectral reflectance measurements constitutes the inverse problem. This has been solved by comparing the measured reflectances of INSAT-3D visible and SWIR channels with entries in the lookup table (LUT) and searching for the combination of τc and re that gives the best fit. In the present case, we have used SBDART (Santa Barbara DISORT Atmospheric Radiative transfer) radiative transfer model for computing the LUT. SBADART computes plane parallel radiative transfer in clear and homogeneous cloudy conditions within the Earth’s atmosphere for the region from 0-50,000 st (Ricchiazzi et al.,1998). SBDART can compute the radiative effects of several lower and upper atmosphere aerosol types. The radiative transfer equation is numerically integrated with DISORT. This module was designed to treat the plane parallel radiative transfer. The discrete ordinate method provides a stable algorithm to calculate the plane parallel radiative transfer equation in vertically inhomogeneous atmosphere.