iterative method to adjust first guess profiles. Ozone profile and integrated amount is retrieved using regression retrieval and used as first guess for the physical retrieval routine. 16.4.1.1 Theoretical Background Atmospheric sounding is one of the most important applications of satellite measurements in meteorology, which involves retrieving vertical profiles of temperature and trace-gas concentrations, especially water vapor and ozone, using observations at wavelengths that have significant attenuation in atmosphere. For this we need to know the variation of temperature with altitude, and the variation of the density of atmospheric gases with altitude, such as carbon dioxide, water vapor and ozone. Water vapor is important because of its meteorological impact and its importance for atmospheric correction in thermal infrared measurements. Temperature, Moisture Profile and Total Ozone from Sounder INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 249 Atmospheric sounding techniques exploit all three phenomena that that play important role in radiative transfer: namely absorption, scattering and thermal emission. Most observations are made in the thermal infrared and microwave bands. At infrared wavelengths scattering due to atmospheric gases is negligible, hence it is not considered in the radiative transfer process. For vertical sounding at infrared wavelengths the significant terms in the radiative transfer equation (RTE) are absorption and thermal emission. This simplification is called Schwartzchild’s equation. Here, we will consider only cloud-free conditions. If a sensor views vertically downwards into the atmosphere at a wavelength at which the atmosphere is optically thick, the brightness temperature/radiances that are received by sensor will be characteristic of the atmosphere at a depth below the sensor that is of the order of the absorption length. Thus for bigger absorption coefficient, the absorption length is smaller and hence the temperature signal is received from higher altitude. So by making observations at a number of wavelengths near a broad absorption line,