contribution from broad atmospheric layers whose thickness and mean altitude vary with operating frequency as well as with humidity and temperature in the atmosphere. Using observations from SAPHIR channels, algorithms are developed to operationally derive the Atmospheric Humidity profiles (Gohil et al., 2013, Mathur et al., 2013). Rain is an important atmospheric parameter and is most fundamental to achieve science objectives of the Megha-Tropiques mission. Keeping this is view, the MADRAS onboard MT mission is specifically designed to measure the rain. However, after few months of successful operation, some anomaly was observed in the MADRAS 3 observations due to a suspected electrical interference which resulted in to random channel mixing. A methodology is worked out by the CNES and ISRO Project teams for realignment of the data. With this additional processing, a significant amount of data is recovered. However, another serious anomaly observed in MADARS scan mechanism and the MADRAS instrument is declared non-operational on 26 January 2013 (please see, http://smsc.cnes.fr/MEGHAT/GP_actualites.htm). In view of these facts, we herein make an attempt to measure rain from SAPHIR observations which may help fulfilling science objectives of the MT mission in the absence of the MADRAS observations. For rain measurement, passive microwave radiometers operating below 90 GHz frequency (e.g., TMI, SSM/I, AMSR-E, MADRAS, etc.) are commonly used. Frequencies above 90 GHz are available on number of sensors like SSMIS, SSM/T 2 (Special Sensor Microwave Temperature 2) onboard DMSP satellite, AMSU (Advance Microwave Sounder Unit) onboard Aqua and NOAA 17, and MADRAS and SAPHIR onboard MT. The frequencies above 90 GHz are commonly used for studying the cloud properties (e.g., Liu and Curry, 1990, Weng, 2003, etc.). Hong et al. (2005) have studied the sensitivity of the microwave brightness temperatures to hydrometeors at 89- 190 GHz frequencies, and found that frequencies near water vapor