of vegetation, water and sand can be adjusted to generate a new spectral reflectivity representing new/old growth, or deciduous vs. evergreen forest. Combining a small fraction of the spectral reflectivity of water with that of sand yields an overall spectral dependence close to wet soil. The diverse profiles datasets are used to construct monthly average temperature and humidity profiles over INSAT observation area. Monthly averaged profiles are used to minimize the uncertainties due to seasonal variation of upper tropospheric temperature on UTH computation. For each month the average profile is perturbed by replacing water vapour at each levels between 600-200 hPa to make the relative humidity (RH) a constant value (=2, 4, 6….100%) throughout the layer 600-200hPa and falls off linearly to ~0 from 200 hPa to 100 hPa in each of the perturbed profiles. Temperature and ozone profiles are kept same for each perturbed profile in each month and only water vapour is changed above 600 hPa level. Since each level between 600-200hPa has same RH value, the weighted average value, i.e. UTH is equal to RH for each perturbed profile. Water vapour channel brightness temperatures for each perturbed profile at different zenith angle (0, 5, 10…..60°) are simulated using the Santa Barbara DISORT Atmospheric Radiative Transfer (SBDART) model (Ricchiazzi, Yang, Gautier, & Sowle, 1998). The radiative transfer computations are carried out separately for each satellite (INSAT-3A, Kalpana, and INSAT-3D) using sensor response functions of water vapour channels for simulating realistic satellite radiances. For each profile, the main inputs for the radiative transfer computations are: atmospheric profiles of temperature, water vapour, and ozone concentrations. These simulations are carried out for average profiles corresponding to different months. Regression analysis is carried out separately for each satellite and each months independently and the regression coefficients are obtained between [UTH/cos()] and water