geo-location information is provided in terms of latitude/longitude datasets. For L1B products, the latitude/ longitude datasets are stored corresponding to each distinct resolution (1km/ 4km/ 8km for IMAGER and 10 km for SOUNDER). Table 2.16 Geo-location Datasets for L1B, L2B and L2P (HDF) Products S. No. Dataset Name Data Type Description Applicable Levels 1. Latitude 16-bit signed integer Latitude values. (For L1B Products, it corresponds to IR channels.) L1B, L2B, L2P 2. Longitude Longitude values (For L1B Products, it corresponds to IR channels.) L1B, L2B, L2P 3. Latitude_VIS 32-bit signed integer Latitude values for VIS and SWIR channels L1B 4. Latitude_VIS Longitude values for VIS and SWIR channels L1B 5. Latitude_WV 16-bit signed integer Latitude values for WV channels L1B 6. Longitude_WV Longitude values for WV channels L1B Each of these datasets has following attributes: Table 2.17 Attributes Geo-location Information Datasets S. No. Attribute Name Data type Description 1. add_offset 32-bit floating point CF-compliant attribute for defining add offset (used in scaling the values). 2. scale_factor CF-compliant attribute for defining scale factor (used in scaling the values). 3. units string (degrees_north for latitude, degrees_east for longitude) CF-compliant attribute for defining units of latitude and longitude variables 4. _FillValue Same as dataset data-type CF-compliant attribute used where the parameter is missing 5. long_name string, length=variable long name for latitude and longitude variables 15 For L1C products, the geo-location information is provided in terms of map projection (grid mapping in CF terminology) parameters. Grid Mapping is specified by creating “Projection_Information Dataset” and grid mapping is defined as a set of attributes of this dataset. For INSAT-3D, the supported projections are: 1. Mercator 2. Lambert Conformal Conic For Mercator, the grid mapping is defined as following set of attributes: Table 2.18 Grid Mapping Description for Mercator projection (for L1C and L2C) S. No.