parts of the ocean. Empirical algorithms for chl-a retrieval work on the assumption that the remote-sensing reflectance (Rrs) is mainly influenced by phytoplankton and its degraded products. However, this assumption does not hold for Case-2 waters where the optically active constituents do not covary (Dierssen 2010). Due to overlapping nature of absorption spectra of various independently varying constituents, relative change in reflectance value at blue and green bands cannot be linked directly to chl-a and therefore, results in the failure of empirical methods. Also, during phytoplankton blooms of a particular species, the empirical based method fails to accurately retrieve chla. This is because most empirical relationships are derived from Case-1 waters constituting a large number of other phytoplankton species. Another set of algorithms are based on semi analytical (SA) inversions of optical closure relationship derived from radiative-transfer theory (Gordon et al., 1988; Carder et al., 1999; Maritorenna et al., 2002; Lee et al., 2004). The model relates Rrs spectra to the inherent optical properties (IOPs) of a water column. The IOPs include (A) total absorption coefficient, which is the sum of absorption by seawater (aw), phytoplankton (aph), colored dissolved organic matter (CDOM) + detritus (acdm); and (B) total backscattering coefficient, which includes backscattering by seawater (bbw) and suspended particles (bbp). Proper inversion of such model allows accurate retrieval of bio-optical parameters including chl-a concentration and various IOPs. Fig. 1. Map of Chilika with station locations (The numbers indicate station locations where repeated observations were taken in years 2014 and 2015, N = 64 points). Advantage here is that several parameters can be retrieved simultaneously. To mathematically solve SA equation, spectral models for the three IOPs (i.e., aph(λ), acdm(λ), and bbp(λ)) must be known. To define spectral absorption of CDOM+detritus (CDM), exponential decay function is used which depends on spectral slope