implementation on the operational basis for geophysical data product generation from MT satellite data. Algorithms for each sensor are provided in separate sections as presented in this document. Section 2 describes the details of rainfall retrieval from MADRAS which includes the state of the art of algorithms for retrieving rainfall rate using microwave radiometers, scattering based radiative transfer model, necessity of environmental and hydrometeor data sets, inversion techniques, prevailing retrieval accuracies and validation techniques. Section 3 deals with the retrieval of geophysical parameters namely, atmospheric total water vapour content, cloud liquid water content and ocean surface wind speed from MADRAS. It describes the global scenario including Indian heritage, emission based radiative transfer model, simulation of environmental data, simulation based retrieval techniques, fine-tuning and validation techniques. Megha-Tropiques ATBD Ver 3.0 5 Section 4 is devoted to the retrieval of atmospheric humidity profile from SAPHIR sensor. It deals with the emission based radiative transfer model suitable for sounding purpose, simulation of synthetic atmospheric profiles, sensitivity studies, simulation results, inversion techniques and preliminary analysis of limited AMSU-B sounder data. Section 5 describes the complexities of processes needed for estimation of top-of- atmosphere radiation flux from the radiance measurements over the different portions of the electromagnetic spectrum by ScaRaB. Section 6 deals with the retrieval of atmospheric profiles of temperature and humidity using the information about the refractivity as an input made available from ROSA measurements. Megha-Tropiques ATBD Ver 3.0 6 2.0 Retrieval of Rainfall from MADRAS Megha-Tropiques ATBD Ver 3.0 7 2. Retrieval of Rainfall from MADRAS 2.1 Algorithm configuration information 2.1.1 Algorithm name: Rainfall Retrieval (RAINRET) 2.1.2 Algorithm Identifier: ISRO_MT_RAINRET_A001 2.1.3 Algorithm Specification Version Prepared by Description 2.0 R.M. Gairola and A.K. Varma ATBD for Rainfall Retrieval from MADRAS 2.2 Introduction Rainfall is a highly discontinuous process both in space and time.