in single MIR [Wooster et al., 2003]. Further, to minimize false fire detections, the WF_ABBA uses a temporal filter to exclude the fire pixels that are only detected once within the past 12 h [Schmidt and Prins, 2003]. The WF_ABBA V65 has been installed in NOAA OSDPD (the Office of Satellite Data Processing and Distribution) to operationally produce FRP from geostationary satellites since late 2009 (http://satepsanone.nesdis.noaa.gov/pub/FIRE/forPo/). The NOAA fire product provides detailed information of WF_ABBA V65 fire detections. 2.4. Assumptions and Limitations Several assumptions have been made concerning performance estimates. Meteorological satellite instruments are not inherently designed to be able to detect and characterize small sub-pixel hot spots. Therefore, performance of the algorithm will be sensitive to instrument noise and other anomalies. First of all, the output from the equations is no better than the input Imager data. The technique assumes well calibrated Channels that meet current specifications for NedT, co- registration, diffraction, earth location, saturation, etc. It also assumes that sub-pixel detector saturations are flagged and available for application in near real time. If this information is not available, sub-pixel characterization is suspect for both saturated and non-saturated fire pixels. The algorithm assumes that observed radiances are determined by the fire and non-fire portion of the pixel and are only affected by and adjusted for surface emissivity, water vapor attenuation, semi- transparent clouds/smoke, diffraction, and solar reflectivity (3.9 µm band – Channel 3 – only). INSAT-3D Incremental ATBD (MMDRPS), November 2018 31 Each of the above “attenuation” (except clouds/smoke) properties are assumed the same for the fire pixel and background conditions. 2.5. Validation High uncertainty exists in global biomass emissions and accurate validation is currently not possible because of the lack of reliable in situ measurement. Therefore, BBEP will be compared with other data sources. We will validate our