required inputs and desired outputs. This document will form the basis of operational implementation of the algorithm. 2.3 Input data sets 2.3.1 Satellite Data: Chlorophyll-a global product from OCM3 onboard OCEANSAT-3 is used in the algorithm to improve model simulations of chlorophyll. GAC products are available scene wise at 1 km resolution wise (https://bhoonidhi.nrsc.gov.in). More than 200 scenes are available daily for the entire globe. Therefore, a gridded field of OCM-3 chlorophyll-a is generated as an intermediate product for the global ocean at 4km resolution combining all the OCM-3 products available for the particular day. 2.3.2 Model Data: Chlorophyll from coupled physical-biogeochemical model (MOM5-TOPAZ) for the global ocean is used as the background chlorophyll field in the algorithm. This model is operationally running at SAC. 2.3.2.1 General description of the Ocean General Circulation Model Ocean General circulation model used for the simulation of physical parameters of ocean is Modular Ocean Model, version 5 (MOM-5). It is a numerical representation of the ocean’s hydrostatic primitive equations employing either Boussinesq (volume conserving) or non-Boussinesq (mass conserving) kinematics. The present study use Boussinesq kinematics. This model is developed by NOAA’s Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory (GFDL) in Princeton, USA. The horizontal grids used in MOM5 are generalized horizontal coordinates, with the coordinates assumed to be locally orthogonal. For global ocean climate modeling, MOM uses the tripolar grid that has a bipolar Arctic region (Murray , 1996). The model also employs a split-explicit time stepping scheme where fast two-dimensional dynamics is sub-cycled within the slower three dimensional dynamics. MOM gives a wide array of vertical mixing schemes and the present model configuration used KPP scheme. 2.3.2.2. Description of the Ecosystem model The present configuration for global ocean is a coupled one, in which MOM5, the ocean component is coupled to an ocean ecosystem model. A