proposed algorithm is closer to GHRSST gradients as compared to gradients calculated from SST retrieved through operational algorithm. The above initial validation exercise confirms the superiority of the proposed algorithm over the operational one. SAC/EPSA/AOSG/SR/01/2018 18 3.7 Technical issues (limitation etc.) Accuracy of the product depends on the accuracy of the radiative transfer model to simulate the satellite radiances, instrument noise and atmospheric correction. Biases in radiative transfer model simulations can be accounted for by validating the derived SST with reliable and concurrent in- situ data. In the absence of split thermal window channel observations and a channel sensitive to intervening atmospheric total water vapour content, the atmospheric correction applied is an indirect. The accuracy of this correction will heavily depend upon the accuracy of the model reanalysis for total water vapour. Major constraints on data quality outside the scope of this effort focus in the following areas: accurate pre-launch instrument characterization, instrument NEΔT for each band, calibration model performance, availability of quality controlled surface calibration- validation observations, availability and access to the various quality assessment data sets, and timely access to continuing performance assessment data sets. The on-orbit instrument NEΔT performance is a primary input to the algorithm error budget. 3.7 Future Scope Initially, this proposed algorithm and bias correction would be used to derive SST. Over a period of approximately one year, after complete calibration and validation of the product, bias correction and other fine tuning of the coefficients would be carried out. This should improve the accuracy of the product to the desired level. Of course, instrument noise also plays a crucial role in determining the overall accuracy of the product. Generation of regression coefficients for SST retrieval from simultaneous satellite and buoy observations data base require nearly 250 buoys distributed over Arabian Sea, Bay of Bengal