tool in the scientific community to elucidate the mechanism of physical and marine system and predict its evolution in both space and time scale. It enhanced the scope to study the biogeochemical and ecological responses to physical forcing, which is a key component in the climate change science and environmental risk assessment. 2.1 Overview and Background: The synergistic use of satellite derived chlorophyll and model simulated chlorophyll is adapted in order to explore the advantages offered by both systems in the generation of analysed fields of chlorophyll. For this purpose, daily fields of model chlorophyll from a coupled physical-biogeochemical model are modified with respect to satellite derived chlorophyll data by statistically combining both fields of chlorophyll using Particle filter technique for the global ocean. Particle Filter is an ensemble based technique like ensemble Kalman filter (van Leeuwen, 2009). But unlike methods like EnKF, ensemble optimal interpolation (Evensen, 2003) etc, particle filter doesn’t change the dynamical balance of the system and also does not consider the apriori assumption of the Gaussianity of the probability distribution function (PDF) of the system. This makes particle filter more suitable for non-linear systems like ocean dynamics. Recently the particle filter techniques have been successfully utilized in assimilation of chlorophyll data in a coupled bio-physical model (Ratheesh et al., 2016) and in the assimilation of highly non-linear coastal waves in a wave models (Bhowmick et al., 2019). 2.2 Objective The main objective of this document is to provide step wise implementation of the algorithm, along with required inputs and desired outputs. This document will form the basis of operational implementation of the algorithm. 2.3 Input data sets 2.3.1 Satellite Data: Chlorophyll-a global product from OCM3 onboard OCEANSAT-3 is used in the algorithm to improve model simulations of chlorophyll. GAC products are available scene wise at 1