ocean is < 0.9 mm/h and 0.13 mm/h with standard deviation of 0.70 mm/h and 0.54 mm/h, respectively, and rain due to false alarm over both land and oceans is < 0.9 mm/h. In the third step, a nonlinear rain retrieval algorithm is proposed for rain affected pixels, which explains a correlation of 0.70 and rmse of 0.81 mm/h. When rain identification and retrieval algorithms are applied together, it explains a correlation of 0.68 and rmse of 0.45 mm/h on instantaneous basis. Comparison of rain from SAPHIR with TRMM-3B42 on monthly basis indicates a correlation of 0.84 and rms difference of 0.09 mm/h. In this report step-by-step procedure in given to make this algorithm operational. 10. Classification: Unrestricted 11. Distribution: All concerned 2 Rain Detection and Measurement from Megha-Tropiques Microwave Sounder – SAPHIR 1. Introduction: In order to study the tropical convective systems and their dominance in defining the energy and water cycle in the atmosphere, several atmospheric variables like precipitation, surface evaporation, net radiation at the top of the atmosphere, vertical profile of temperature and humidity, etc, play a crucial role, and hence it is imperative to measure these variables simultaneously. This is planned to be achieved through a joint Indo-French collaborative Megha-Tropiques (MT) satellite mission. Megha-Tropiques satellite was launched on 12 October 2011, and is purposely designed to study the convective systems, water cycles and energy exchanges in the tropical atmosphere through a host of onboard instruments such as Microwave Analysis and Detection of Rain and Atmospheric Structures (MADRAS), Sondeur Atmosphérique du Profil d'Humidité Intertropical par Radiométrie (SAPHIR), Scanner for Radiation Budget (ScaRaB) and Radio Occultation Sensor for Atmosphere (ROSA). To facilitate frequent observations over the tropics, the Megha-Tropiques is placed in a low inclination orbit (20o) at 867 km altitude that provides the coverage over the global