vapour pressure deficit. Among them, solar radiation is the most sensitive parameter influencing almost 60-70% variability of ETo . The potential evapo-transpiration (PET), hereafter referred as grass reference evapo-transpiration (ETo), is expressed in terms of amount of water transferred per unit time to atmosphere from water non-limiting surface covered with a uniformly and actively growing short grass such as Alfalfa. ETo represents the evaporative demand of the atmosphere for a given climatic region. Deficiency in required supply of moisture leads to water stress. Reference evapo-transpiration is an agrometeorological variable widely used in hydrology and agriculture. Together with precipitation, it is a major input in soil water balance models. Several of these models require daily or hourly evapo- transpiration data to provide acceptable estimate of plants’ water requirements. This would provide regional water demand in different agro-climatic settings and agricultural growing season. The combination of spatial rainfall with ETo would help in monitoring water deficit and surplus during a growing season for rainfed agriculture. Some contours of monthly climatic ETo have been generated by Department of Agricultural Meteorology, IMD (India Meteorological Department) from measurements of limited surface observatories in India. But interpolation from such contours will propagate large errors. No digital map of ETo is available to scientific community, modelers, resource managers and planners in India. Moreover, real-time updated spatial ETo product at weekly, ten-day, fortnightly and monthly scales would aid in knowing the intra and inter-seasonal climatic variability of water stress factors and their impact on deviation in biomass and yield. The climatic moisture index (ratio of rainfall and PET) is essential to know surface wetness and suitability of sowing or transplanting operations. Potential evapotranspiration INSAT-3D ATBD Document, May 2015 310 Therefore, it has the relevance for national agro-advisory services to farmers as well as crop forecasting. 19.2.1 Overview and